---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Arcana

Name | Description
--- | ---
**Arcane Spell Knowledge**  | You can take higher ranks for this talent without having taken its lower ranks provided your Arcana also has the required rank.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 1)</strong> +2 Focus. Learn two rank 0 or 1 spells for any of your disciplines, or adopt a new discipline and learn one new rank 0 spell for it. You can choose this Talent multiple times.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>+2 Focus.<strong> </strong>Learn two rank 2 or lower spells for any of your disciplines. You can choose this Talent multiple times.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) +</strong>2 Focus.<strong> </strong>Learn two rank 3 or lower spells for any of your disciplines. You can choose this Talent multiple times.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 4) </strong>+2 Focus. Learn two rank 4 or lower spells for any of your disciplines. You can choose this Talent multiple times.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 5) </strong>+2 Focus. Learn two rank 5 or lower spells for any of your disciplines. You can choose this Talent multiple times.
**Battle Mage**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you are attacked by an enemy and they roll against your Parry or Dodge, you can use your Quick Action and spend 2 Focus to conjure a momentary barrier of arcane force which adds +2 to both your Parry or Dodge against that attack. You can spend another 2 Focus for the same effect against further attacks until your next turn without using another Quick Action.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You can roll Mind + Arcana for weapon attacks.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>When you hit with a melee or ranged weapon, add +4 to the damage (ability bonus).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 4)</strong> After you have attacked with a melee or ranged weapon, you can use your Quick Action to cast any rank 0 spell targeting a single creature.
**Inexhaustible Mind**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> During a short break, you can meditate to recharge your mind’s power and regain half your max. Focus. You can use this ability a number of times per day equal to your Arcana.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you have no Focus left, you can still cast spells by spending 2 HP for every 1 Focus you would have to spend normally.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you use your Inexhaustible Mind ability during a short break, you regain all your Focus instead.
**Mana Shield**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you successfully cast an arcane spell of rank 1 or higher, a barrier of arcane force forms around you. Whenever you take damage, the barrier absorbs it instead, up to a total of twice the cast spell’s rank. Once it has absorbed that much damage, it fades. Forming a new barrier replaces the old one only if the new barrier’s absorption is higher. The barrier also fades after a short break.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you successfully cast an arcane spell of rank 1 or higher while your barrier holds, you can choose to increase the barrier’s remaining absorption by the spell’s rank instead of forming a new barrier.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> Once per scene, when you take damage while your barrier holds, you can choose to have the barrier absorb all of that damage. The barrier then fades.
**Master of Fundamentals**  | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When you cast an arcane rank 0 spell, you can choose to re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you hit with an arcane rank 0 spell that deals damage, add +2 to the damage (ability bonus).<br/>- Instead of attacking for an Opportunity Attack, you can choose to cast an arcane rank 0 spell against the target.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>You gain the following abilities:<br/>- The damage bonus from Master of Fundamentals increases to +4.<br/>- When you cast an arcane rank 0 spell on your turn, you can use a Quick Action to cast the same spell again against any target but suffer +1 bane on the roll.
**Spellblade**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> By spending your Quick Action and 2 additional Focus on top of the spell's normal casting cost, you can cast any of your arcane rank 0 spells that target a single creature vs. one of their Defenses as a strike spell. Casting the spell still uses your Action as normal. The spell gains the strike property and its range becomes that of the weapon used.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You can also cast your arcane rank 1 spells this way. Once per scene, when the attack of one of your strike spells fails, you can reroll the attack.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You can also cast your arcane rank 2 spells this way. Your strike spells cost -2 Focus (min. 0).
**Spellweaver**  | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>+2 Focus. You are able to use Metamagic Arts along with your arcane spells. You learn any two Metamagic Arts.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>+2 Focus. Learn two more Metamagic Arts.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>+2 Focus. Learn two more Metamagic Arts.
**Wild Overload**  | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When you cast an arcane spell of rank 1 or higher, you can choose to overload it with wild arcane energy before making the spell attack roll. If you do, roll 1d6 before your casting roll and apply the result:<br/><strong>1.</strong> Roll on the Wild Surge table (d100) and apply the result directly after your spell’s effect.<br/><strong>2.</strong> The spell's target or target location is randomly determined (roll randomly among valid targets within range, or shift the target location 1d4 close distances in a random direction). If you fail your spell roll, you lose half the spell’s Focus cost instead.<br/><strong>3.</strong> You suffer +1 bane on your spell roll.<br/><strong>4.</strong> You gain +1 boon on your spell roll.<br/><strong>5.</strong> Heighten the spell by one rank. If the spell requires a static target Difficulty, it is also increased by one rank.<br/><strong>6.</strong> Choose any one Metamagic Art you know and apply it to the spell without increasing its Focus cost.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you use your wild overload ability, you can spend 2 Focus to roll 2d6 instead and pick one of the results.<br/>- When you roll on the Wild Surge table (d100), you can spend 4 Focus to re-roll the result. You must take the new result.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>When you use your wild overload ability, you can choose any result instead of rolling. You can use this ability once per scene. When you roll on the Wild Surge table (d100), you regain access to this ability.
