---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Archery

Name | Description
--- | ---
**Ammo Specialist**  | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When you have to roll a Supply check for your ammo, roll twice and take the higher result.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>You carry special types of ammo with you. When attacking with a ranged weapon that uses ammo, you can choose between <strong>barbed</strong> (slash), <strong>bodkin</strong> (pierce), and <strong>blunt</strong> (crush). Your ranged weapon gains the property of the chosen option for this attack. Immediately after the attack, make a Supply check for your ammo.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you attack with special ammo from your Ammo Specialist ability, you also add your Archery to the damage (ability bonus).
**Art of Archery**  | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>You learn two more Combat Arts for any ranged weapons.<br/><br/>(<strong>Rank 2) </strong>You learn two more Combat Arts for any ranged weapons.<br/><br/>(<strong>Rank 3) </strong>You gain the following abilities:- Whenever you can learn new Combat Arts for any ranged weapons, you can now choose Supreme Combat Arts instead. <br/>- You learn two more Combat Arts or Supreme Combat Arts for any ranged weapons.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 4)</strong> You learn two more Combat Arts or Supreme Combat Arts for any ranged weapons.
**Crossbow Mastery**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You can also reload your crossbow using a Quick Action on your turn.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> On a strong or critical hit with a crossbow, ignore 1/2 the target‘s AV.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you hit with a crossbow, you can use your Quick Action to make the target roll a hard Strength + Fortitude test. On a failure, the target is briefly stunned. On a success, the target is briefly shaken instead.
**Disciplined Archer**  | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>You can choose to re-roll any attack roll with a ranged weapon once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You can use your Combat Arts for ranged weapons two times per scene each, but each individual Combat Art not two turns in a row.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>When you hit with a ranged weapon, you can choose to use your Quick Action to make another attack against any target but suffer +1 bane on the roll.
**Expert Slinger**  | (<strong>Rank 1)</strong> When you have to make a Supply check for a bundle of thrown weapons, roll twice and take the higher result.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you hit with a thrown weapon at close or short range, add your Archery to the damage (ability bonus).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> After attacking with a thrown weapon on your turn, you can choose to immediately spend 1 Movement without provoking Opportunity Attacks. You can use this ability once between your turns.
**Rapid Shot**  | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When using your Action to attack with a non-heavy ranged weapon, you can attack twice with it, but you suffer +1 bane on both attacks.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You suffer no banes from using your Rapid Shot ability.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> On a strong or critical hit with a non-heavy ranged weapon, the target suffers marked (4).
**Reflexive Shooter**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You don’t suffer banes from shooting into or out of melee range. If you roll a blunder for ranged attacks shooting into melee, you still accidentally hit another creature at random.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>When an enemy enters your close range, you can use your Quick Action to make an Opportunity Attack with a ranged weapon you are holding against them.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>When an enemy leaves your close range, you can use your Quick Action to make an Opportunity Attack with a ranged weapon you are holding against them.
**Sharpshooter**  | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When attacking with a ranged weapon, you can ignore the first bane you would suffer from attacking beyond normal range.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>When attacking with a ranged weapon, you suffer no banes from attacking beyond normal range.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3) </strong>When you skip all Movement this turn (before and after the attack) and when you attack with a ranged weapon at long range or more, you can inflict marked (equal to your Archery) on your target immediately before the attack.
**Strong Grip**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> Using the Power Shot Combat Art with a heavy ranged weapon doesn't impose +1 bane on your attack.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> If your Strength die is one or more steps larger than the heavy property of a ranged weapon, you can choose to attack with it as if it were a non-heavy weapon. Effects that rely on a heavy weapon will not meet their condition anymore when doing so.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you hit with a heavy ranged weapon, add +1/2 Strength to the damage.
