---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Athletics Talents

Name | Description
--- | ---
**Athletic Movement**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When rolling Athletics during special types of Movement, such as crawling, crouching, climbing, swimming, while jumping, or when using the Vault action, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You can also use the Vault Action using a Quick Action on your turn.<br/>- During special types of Movement, such as crawling, crouching, climbing, and swimming, you don‘t move as in difficult terrain.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>You gain the following abilities:- When jumping, you can jump a short distance instead.<br/>- When you take falling damage, treat your distance as one category lower.<br/>
**Bulky**  | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>Gain +2 HP. Add +2 to your carrying capacity.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> Gain +2 HP. You gain the following abilities:<br/>- Add +3 to your carrying capacity instead.<br/>- When you are moving through difficult terrain or otherwise are required to spend extra Movement, you can use your Quick Action to move without spending extra Movement for the rest of your turn.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> Gain +2 HP. You gain the following abilities:<br/>- Add +4 to your carrying capacity instead.<br/>- While grappling, being grappled, or restrained, you count as a creature one Size larger than normal.<br/>
**Escape Artist**  | You can’t use any of these abilities while wearing heavy armor.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you would be grappled, knocked prone, or pushed, you can use your Quick Action to roll Agility + Athletics vs. the source’s Parry. On a success, you ignore  the effect.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>Whenever you can roll Athletics with an Action to end the effect that grapples or restrains you, you can use your Quick Action to automatically choose to succeed on the roll.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>Your Movement doesn’t provoke Opportunity Attacks.
**Evasion**  | You can’t use any of these abilities while wearing heavy armor.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You can also use the Retreat Action using a Quick Action on your turn.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain +1 Quick Action you can use between your turns. You can still only use one of your Quick Actions during your turn.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you take physical damage from any source, you can choose to halve that damage once per scene (after subtracting AV).
**Fast Stride**  | You can’t use any of these abilities while wearing heavy armor.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 1) </strong>You can also use the Dash Action using a Quick Action on your turn.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> During your turns, you get +1 Movement.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>After a successful attack, you can choose to immediately move a close or short distance without provoking Opportunity Attacks.
**Grappler**  | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When you hit a target no more than one size larger than you with an unarmed attack or with a brawling weapon, you can choose to also grapple the target. When doing so, this attack also counts as a Grapple Action. On a hit, the target is grappled by you.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> While you are grappling a creature and you hit them again with an unarmed attack or with a brawling weapon, you can choose to also restrain them while they are grappled by you.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- Creatures larger than you don’t impose banes on your grapple rolls and don’t gain boons from their Size to end your grapple against them.<br/>- While grappling, add your Athletics as damage to attacks against the grappled target (ability bonus).<br/>
**Light Armor Mastery**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> While wearing light armor and being attacked in melee, you can Evade without spending a Quick Action once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> Ignore the noisy property of light armor you wear. <br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You can use your Light Armor Mastery ability once between your turns instead.
**Stand your Ground**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you would be knocked prone or pushed by a creature, you can use your Quick Action to ignore being knocked prone or reduce the distance you are pushed by one step (if you are pushed close, instead you aren‘t pushed at all).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>When an enemy in your melee range attacks any creature other than you, you can use a Quick Action for an Opportunity Attack against them.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>When you use your Stand your Ground ability to ignore being knocked prone or reducing the distance your are being pushed, you can choose to also use the Shove or Trip Action for free against the source.

