---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# Fighting Talents

Name | Description
--- | ---
**Art of Fighting**  | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>You learn two more Combat Arts for any melee weapons.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>You learn two more Combat Arts for any melee weapons.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>You gain the following abilities:- Whenever you can learn new Combat Arts for any melee weapons, you can now choose Supreme Combat Arts instead. <br/>- You learn two more Combat Arts or Supreme Combat Arts for any melee weapons.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 4) </strong>You learn two more Combat Arts or Supreme Combat Arts for any melee weapons.
**Axe Mastery**  | (<strong>Rank 1)</strong> On a hit with an axe, you can use your Quick Action to use the Disarm Action against the target immediately after the attack.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> On a strong or critical hit with an axe against a target in light or no armor, inflict bleeding equal to your weapon damage for a short duration.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> On a strong or critical hit with an axe, you can use your Quick Action to rend the target‘s armor or shield (your choice if both are present). The target rolls a Durability check for the item. On a failure, the item gets damaged or destroyed if already damaged.
**Blade Mastery**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When attacking with a blade with either the pierce or slash property, you can choose to replace that property with the other one (slash instead of pierce or pierce instead of slash). When doing so, your weapon damage is reduced by 1 for this attack.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- On a strong or critical hit with a blade with the pierce property, ignore 1/2 of your target‘s AV.<br/>- On a strong or critical hit with a blade with the slash property, your target suffers marked (2).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When attacking with a blade weapon, you can choose to gain +1 boon on the roll once per turn.
**Defensive Dueling**  | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>While you only wield a single non-heavy melee weapon and no shield, you gain +1 Parry (ability bonus).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> While you only wield a single non-heavy melee weapon, you can use your Quick Action when being attacked against your Parry or Dodge to add your Fighting to that Defense against this attack only.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> While you only wield a single non-heavy melee weapon and no shield and you successfully parry a melee attack against you, the attacker is briefly marked (equal to your Fighting). You can use this ability once between your turns.
**Disciplined Fighter**  | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>You can choose to re-roll any attack roll with a melee weapon once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You can use your Combat Arts for melee weapons two times per scene each, but each individual Combat Art not two turns in a row.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)  </strong>When you hit with a melee weapon, you can choose to use your Quick Action to make another attack against any target but suffer +1 bane on the roll.
**Dual Wielder**  | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>You suffer no banes for attacking with two light melee weapons.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- While wielding two melee weapons, you gain +1 Parry (ability bonus).<br/>- You can also use any non-heavy melee weapons for dual-wielding, but suffer +1 bane on attacks with them if they aren’t light.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When attacking with two melee weapons, you can roll another attack with one of the weapons but you suffer +1 bane on it.
**Heavy Weapon Mastery**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> Using the Brutal Strike Combat Art with a heavy melee weapon doesn't impose +1 bane on your attack.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>When you hit with a heavy melee weapon and the attack‘s damage reduces the target to 0 HP, you can make another attack against a different target. On a hit with this attack, subtract your weapon damage once from the total damage. You can use this ability once per turn.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3)</strong> When you skip all Movement this turn (before and after the attack), on a hit with a heavy melee weapon, you can add +1/2 Strength to the attacks damage once per turn.
**Mace Mastery**  | (<strong>Rank 1)</strong> When you attack with a mace and don‘t blunder (even on a normal failure), you always at least deal damage equal to your weapon damage (ignoring AV) to the target. This applies even if the target‘s AV or a resistance would reduce the damage to a lower value. The only exception is the enemy being fully immune to your attack.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> On a strong or critical hit with a mace, your target is briefly dazed.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> On a hit with a mace, you can use your Quick Action to ignore the target‘s AV completely.
**Martial Artist**  | (<strong>Rank 1)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You don’t suffer +1 bane when attacking with improvised weapons.<br/>- You can use unarmed attacks, any non-heavy weapon, and improvised weapons as if it were agile.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You also gain the following abilities:<br/>- You ignore the fragile property of improvised weapons and can use Combat Arts with them as if they were brawling weapons.<br/>- When a ranged weapon attack misses you, you can use your Quick Action to make an Opportunity Attack against the attacker using the weapon or piece of ammunition they used in their attack against you. On a hit, treat this as a normal weapon attack with the attacker‘s weapon.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>You also gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you attack with an improvised weapon, add your Fighting to the damage (ability bonus).<br/>- When you attack with an agile weapon, you can choose to suffer +1 bane on the roll. When you do so and hit, you hit an additional time with the same weapon against the same target (treat this extra hit as a weak success).<br/>
**Polearm Mastery**  | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>While you wield a polearm and an enemy moves into your weapon’s reach, you can use a Quick Action for an Opportunity Attack against them.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>While you wield a polearm, you also gain the following abilities:<br/>- You don‘t suffer +1 bane from attacking with a reach polearm in melee range.<br/>- When you are pushed, reduce the distance by one step (being pushed close instead doesn’t push you at all).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>While you wield a polearm, you also gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you use the Charge Combat Art, add +1/2 Strength to the damage.<br/>- You are immune to being knocked prone or getting pushed by other creatures.<br/>
**Protective Stance**  | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>While you wield a shield and you use Protect Ally, the attacking enemy suffers +1 bane on their attack against you.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> While you wield a shield, you can use Protect Ally once between your turns without using your Quick Action.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> While you wield a shield and you use Protect Ally, you have resistance against the damage you take from the attack.
**Pugilist**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- Your unarmed attacks also count as brawling weapons that deal 2 weapon damage and have the crush and light properties.<br/>- While you wield no weapons other than brawling weapons, you gain +1 Parry (ability bonus).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- Unarmed attacks deal 3 weapon damage instead. <br/>- When you hit an enemy with a brawling weapon, you can use Distract against them as a Quick Action. You gain +1 boon on this roll.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- Unarmed attacks deal 4 weapon damage instead. <br/>- When you have hit an enemy with a brawling weapon, you regain your Fortitude as HP.<br/>
**Riposte**  | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>When an enemy misses their melee attack against your Parry and while you wield a non-heavy melee weapon, you can use a Quick Action to roll an Opportunity Attack against that enemy.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you hit an enemy with an Opportunity Attack, their Movement is reduced to 0 for the rest of their turn.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you use your Riposte ability to make an Opportunity Attack and you hit, the enemy is briefly dazed.
**Shield Mastery**  | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When an enemy hits you with a melee attack while you wield a shield, you can use a Quick Action to reduce the SL of their attack by one step (min. failure). Immediately after the attack, roll a Durability check for your shield.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> Reduce the rigid property of shields you wield by 1. When you make a melee attack with any weapon you are holding, you can choose to use your shield’s Combat Arts with that weapon attack.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>When you use your Shield Mastery ability and have to make a Durability check of your shield, make the check twice and take the higher result.

