---
sidebar_position: 7
---

# Fortitude

Name | Description
--- | ---
**Adrenaline Rush**  | <em>something with taking damage to gain benefits.</em>
**Battle Rage**  | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>While you wear no heavy armor, you can enter a battle rage on your turn. While enraged, you gain the following effects:<br/>- You gain +1 boon on all non-attack Strength rolls.<br/>- You can spend 2 HP during a melee attack to add +2 to the damage.<br/>- You suffer +1 bane on all Mind rolls and can’t cast or concentrate on spells.<br/><br/>When the scene ends or you fall unconscious, you automatically stop being enraged. When this happens, roll Strength + Fortitude. On a failure, you suffer one Fatigue.<br/><br/>(<strong>Rank 2) </strong>While enraged, you also gain the following effects:<br/>- When entering a battle rage, gain 10 temporary HP.<br/>- You gain +1 Resist (ability bonus).<br/>- You can spend 2 HP during a melee attack to add +4 to the damage instead.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> While enraged, you also gain the following effects:<br/>- When taking non-psychic damage, you can use your Quick Action to half that damage (after subtracting AV).<br/>- You can spend 2 HP during a melee attack to add +6 to the damage instead.<br/>
**Body of Bronze**  | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>+2 HP. While you wear no armor, add 1 + your Fortitude to your AV (armor bonus).<br/><br/>(<strong>Rank 2) </strong>+2 HP. While you wear no armor, you are immune to being dazed or stunned.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> +2 HP. While you wear no armor, you have resistance against physical damage.
**Drunken Technique**  | (<strong>Rank 1)</strong> While intoxicated, you can enter a drunken style stance. While in this stance, you gain the following effects:<br/>- When an enemy misses you with a melee attack, you can spend a Quick Action to redirect the attack against another creature in melee range. The attack automatically hits as a weak success.<br/>- While you are prone, you can stand up on your turn without spending Movement.<br/><br/>(<strong>Rank 2)</strong> While in this stance, you also gain the following effects:<br/>- You gain +1 Dodge (ability bonus).<br/>- You can Evade any melee attack from an enemy without using a Quick Action.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> While in tthis stance, you also gain the following effects:<br/>- You gain +1 Resist (ability bonus).<br/>- You ignore the negative effects from being poisoned.<br/>- Whenever an enemy misses you with a melee attack, you can choose to inflict marked (equal to your Fortitude) on them. You can only use this ability once between your turns.<br/>
**Explorer‘s Tenacity**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> Gain +2 HP. When you roll Fortitude during travel to withstand the elements, the climate, or other environmental hazards, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>Gain +2 HP. You gain the following abilities:<br/>- During a night’s rest or bad night, you lose double the normal amount of Fatigue.<br/>- When you suffer an Injury, you can choose to suffer one Fatigue instead once per day.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> Gain +2 HP. You gain the following abilities:<br/>- During a bad night, you still can roll a hard Strength + Fortitude test to heal one previously treated Injury.<br/>- When you have to make a Supply check for rations during travel, roll twice and take the higher result. When you would automatically lose units of provisions, you can make a Supply check for it instead.<br/>
**Hard to Kill**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> +2 HP. When you suffer a Wound or start dying and have to roll 1d4 in either situation, roll twice and choose any one of the results.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> +2 HP. When you would suffer one Wound, you can choose to ignore it once per day.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> +2 HP. When you use your Hard to Kill ability to ignore a Wound, you immediately regain your Strength as HP.
**Heavy Armor Mastery**  | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>Reduce the rigid property of heavy armor you wear by 1.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> While wearing heavy armor and when you take damage, you can use a Quick Action to double the AV bonus of your worn armor against that attack once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You can use your Heavy Armor Mastery ability without spending a Quick Action but still only once per scene.
**Juggernaut**  | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>While in melee range with multiple enemies, you gain +1 AV for every two of them (ability bonus). You can gain up to 1 + Fortitude as AV from this ability.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>When you use the Cleave Combat Art, you can target any number of enemies in your weapon's reach. Also, you don't subtract your weapon damage from your total damage by the effect of Cleave. <br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>Any of your melee attacks against a single enemy also inflicts damage against a second enemy in your weapon's reach, provided your attack roll would also hit them. Subtract your weapon damage once from the total damage against that second enemy. Any other effects of your attack also affect the second enemy.  
**Second Wind**  | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>Gain +2 HP. You can use your Quick Action on your turn to regain 1/2 Strength + Fortitude as HP once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> Gain +2 HP. When you use your Second Wind ability, you regain Strength + 2 x Fortitude as HP instead.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> Gain +2 HP. You can use your Second Wind ability twice per scene, but still only once per turn.
**Strong Mind**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you have to roll Spirit + Fortitude to concentrate on a spell or withstand an effect that attempts to frighten you, break your morale, charm you, or otherwise influence your mind, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> While you are under the influence of an effect that frightens you, charms you, or otherwise influences your mind, you can choose to immediately end the effect once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain resistance against psychic damage.
**Tough Stomach**  | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>Gain +2 HP. When you have to roll Fortitude to withstand poison, intoxication, or illnesses, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> Gain +2 HP. When you are suffering the poisoned, frightened, or dazed condition, you can use a Quick Action to end it immediately once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>Gain +2 HP. You can use your Tough Stomach ability to immediately end a condition affecting you once between your turns instead.
