---
sidebar_position: 10
---

# Lore

Name | Description
--- | ---
**Channel Superstition**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you use the Demoralize Action and roll a strong or critical success, the target is frightened of you for a short duration. They can roll Spirit + Fortitude at the end of each of their turns to end the effect early.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you use the Demoralize Action, you can target any number of enemies in short range.<br/><em><br/></em><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When a creature frightened of you rolls Spirit + Fortitude at the end of their turn to end the effect, increase the difficulty of the roll by one step.
**Consult the Myths**  | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>When you roll Lore about a magical or supernatural place or creature, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><strong></strong><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you roll Lore about a magical or supernatural place or creature, you gain +1 boon on the roll.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You can use your Action or Quick Action during your turn to roll Spirit + Lore vs. Resist against a supernatural creature.<br/>On a success, you repeatedly chant an ancient phrase, that dazes them for a short duration. They can roll Spirit + Fortitude at the end of their turns to end the effect early. Any creature you failed this roll against or that succeeded on their roll against this ability is immune against it for the rest of the scene.
**Divine Scholar**  | <em>You can’t choose this talent if you already learned Arcana or Mysticism and chose Devotion for your tradition. You also lose access to this talent’s benefits, if you ever do so later.<br/></em><br/><strong>(Rank 1)</strong> Through studies of different traditions and cults, you expand you horizon of mystical knowledge. Choose one mystic tradition and learn one spell of rank 0 from it.<br/>If you already learned Mysticism, you can now also choose spells from this tradition like any other of your traditions.<br/>If you weren’t able to cast spells before, use your Lore instead of Mysticism for calculating your Focus and any rolls made to cast the spell using the rules for mystic spells.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> +2 Focus. Choose one more tradition (or the same) and learn one spell of rank 1 or lower from it.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3)</strong> +2 Focus. Choose one more tradition (or one of the same) and learn one spell of rank 2 or lower from it.
**Identify Artifact**  | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You can sense if an item you hold has magical properties as a Delving activity.<br/>- After spending an Exploration turn with an object, roll Spirit + Lore vs. 5 + the item’s Quality (the GM doesn’t have to tell the Difficulty to the player, only the results SL of the roll) to identify its magical properties.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> The GM tells you the general nature of the item‘s magic, such as whether it harms, protects, stores a spell, or wards against certain creatures.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> The GM tells you the item‘s enchantment in full, its exact effect and how to activate or use it, and whether the item is cursed.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> As a strong success, and if the item is cursed the GM tells you exactly how the curse works, and every enchantment if it carries more than one.<br/>You can use this ability once per item. On a failure, you must find another means to identify it.<br/><strong></strong><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You can sense if an item you hold has magical properties using an Action instead.<br/>- You can use your Identify Artifact ability as a Delving turn instead.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You automatically sense if any object or structure has magical properties within close range around you.<br/>- You can sense the general nature of an item‘s magical properties you are holding using an Action.<br/>- When you use your Identify Artifact ability and succeed, the GM tells you the item‘s enchantment in full, whether it is cursed, and exactly how any curse works. Even on a failure, you still learn the item‘s general nature.
**Mage Hunter**  | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When an enemy has to roll for Spell Concentration from damage you have dealt to them, they suffer +1 bane on the roll.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2) </strong>When an enemy in your melee range is casting a spell, you can use a Quick Action to make an Opportunity Attack against them.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3) </strong>When an enemy targets you with a spell, you can use a Quick Action to add +2 to your Defenses.
**Magical Sense**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> Your senses are attuned to the presence of magic. As a Quick Action, you can roll Spirit + Lore to detect whether any magical effects (traps, wards, lingering magic, …), creatures (spellcasters, magical beasts, extraplanar creatures, …), or items are present within your close range. On a success, you sense the rough position, presence (faint, moderate, strong, overwhelming) and general type (arcane or mystical) of each source of magic that is not hidden behind solid walls or other obstructions.<br/>This ability lasts briefly or for a short duration if you use your Spell Concentration on it.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>You gain the following abilities:<br/><strong></strong>- Your Magical Sense ability extends to short range.<br/>- When you use your Magical Sense ability, you can attempt to focus your senses on one creature in range with a magical presence. Roll Spirit + Lore vs. their Resist. On a success, pick once for each SL (one for weak, two for strong, three for critical): Magical Ability, Resistance, Weakness, Immunity (you can choose the same type multiple times). If you chose something the target doesn’t have, choose again. You learn about one property of the chosen type for each pick (GM’s choice).<br/>You can use this ability once per individual creature.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/><strong></strong>- Your Magical Sense ability extends to medium range.<br/>- While you use your Magical Sense ability, you gain +1 Resist and +1 boon on any Spirit rolls that target one or more of the magical sources.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 4)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/><strong></strong>- Your Magical Sense ability extends to long range.<br/>- ???
