---
sidebar_position: 11
---

# Mysticism

Name | Description
--- | ---
**Armor of the Faithful**  | You can’t gain this talent’s armor bonus while you benefit from the armor bonus of another talent.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 1) </strong>While you wear no armor, add 1 + your Mysticism to your AV (armor bonus, up to a maximum of +4).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> While you wear no armor, you can roll Spirit + Mysticism for weapon attacks.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> While you wear no armor, you are immune to being frightened or confused.
**Communal Practices**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you cast a spell that affects multiple targets, you can exclude any number of targets from the spell’s effect.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>When you cast a singular mystic spell that targets only a single willing creature, you can choose a second target to also be affected once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you use your Communal Practices Rank 2 ability with a singular mystic spell, you can choose up to three additional targets instead.
**Divine Favor**  | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>During a rest, you can lead a short prayer to your god or spirit patron. Roll Spirit + Mysticism to see how much Favor you gain.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> 1 Favor.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> 2 Favor.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> 3 Favor.<br/>Unspent Favor is lost when you pray again. Spending Favor requires no action, but you can only spend Favor once between your turns.<br/>You can spend 1 Favor when you or an ally within short range makes a roll to grant +1 boon on it.<br/>When you spend your last Favor, roll Spirit + Mysticism vs. TN 12. On a failure, your next prayer suffers +1 bane. On a blunder, your prayers grant no Favor until you atone. To atone, sacrifice offerings worth at least 50 coins x your Mysticism, or spend one full day fasting in your patron's honor. You can fast while traveling, but suffer 1 Fatigue from it.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following ways to spend Favor:<br/>- When you or an ally within short range takes damage, you can spend 1 Favor to reduce the damage by 4.<br/>- You can spend 1 Favor to let one ally within short range regain 4 HP or end the dazed, confused, or frightened condition on them.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you roll for your prayer, you gain +1 Favor on any result, even a failure.<br/>- Once per scene, when you or an ally within short range fails a roll, you can spend 2 Favor to let them re-roll it. They must take the new result.
**Divine Rites**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> During a short break, you can officiate a divine rite to commune with the spiritual energies of your tradition to regain half your max. Focus. You can use this ability a number of times per day equal to your Mysticism.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you roll a critical success on any mystic spell of rank 1 or higher, you only spend half of its Focus cost (min. 1).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> During a short break and if you have less Focus remaining than half your max. Focus, you regain Focus up to half your max. Focus. If you also use your Divine Rites ability during this short break, you instead regain all of your Focus.
**Divine Sense**  | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>As an Action, you can focus your senses on supernatural beings around you. You briefly know the location of any spirit or undead creature within medium range unless they are behind total cover. You also know the creatures‘ types and if they are generally of the same, lower, or higher level as you (you don’t sense specific levels) but nothing more about their identities. You also sense the supernatural aura of any hallowed or cursed object or place within range.<br/>You can use this ability a number of times per day equal to 1/2 your Spirit.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>While you are conscious, you are immune against being charmed, frightened, or poisoned.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> While you are conscious, your allies in short range of you are also immune against being charmed, frightened, or poisoned.
**Elemental Adept**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you hit with a mystic spell that deals damage, you can choose to ignore any resistances against it‘s damage type once between turns.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you use your Elemental Adept ability, you also treat damage immunities against your spell‘s damage type as resistances instead.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you use your Elemental Adept ability, you can choose to instead remove all of the target‘s resistances and reduce their damage immunities to resistances for a short duration. You can choose this option only once per scene.
**Master of Principles**  | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When you cast a mystic rank 0 spell, you can choose to re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you hit with a mystic rank 0 spell that deals damage, add +2 to the damage (ability bonus).<br/>- Instead of attacking for an Opportunity Attack, you can choose to cast a mystic rank 0 spell against the target.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>You gain the following abilities:<br/>- The damage bonus from Master of Principles increases to +4.<br/>- When you cast a mystic rank 0 spell on your turn, you can use a Quick Action to cast the same spell again against any target but suffer +1 bane on the roll.
**Mystic Champion**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> By spending your Quick Action and 2 additional Focus on top of the spell's normal casting cost, you can cast any of your mystic rank 0 spells that target a single creature vs. one of their Defenses as a strike spell. Casting the spell still uses your Action as normal. The spell gains the strike property and its range becomes that of the weapon used.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You can also cast your mystic rank 1 spells this way. Once per scene, when the attack of one of your strike spells fails, you can reroll the attack.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You can also cast your mystic rank 2 spells this way. Your strike spells cost -2 Focus (min. 0).
**Mystical Spell Knowledge**  | You can take higher ranks for this talent without having taken its lower ranks provided your Mysticism also has the required rank.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 1)</strong> +2 Focus. Learn two rank 0 or 1 spells for any of your traditions. You can choose this Talent multiple times.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>+2 Focus. Learn two rank 2 or lower spells for any of your traditions. You can choose this Talent multiple times.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> +2 Focus. Learn two rank 3 or lower spells for any of your traditions. You can choose this Talent multiple times.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 4)</strong> +2 Focus. Learn two rank 4 or lower spells for any of your traditions. You can choose this Talent multiple times.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 5)</strong> +2 Focus. Learn two rank 5 or lower spells for any of your traditions. You can choose this Talent multiple times.
**Pact of Glory**  | <em>Requires you to have picked Devotion when you learned Mysticism.</em><br/>You can only be sworn to one pact. You can’t gain this talent while you have another Pact talent.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 1) </strong>You swear a divine oath to your god or spirit patron from which you gain your mystical magic. You must always uphold the tenets associated with your chosen mystic tradition (as described in the Magic section). Breaking your oath means losing access to this talent’s abilities and you must atone to regain them (see the Magic section for details about breaking an oath).<br/>When you cast a spell of your tradition or attack with a weapon, and you used the other of these two options on your previous turn, you deal +2 damage (ability bonus) or regain 2 HP with it (choose one).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you use your Pact of Glory ability, your choice also affects your allies in close range. If you choose damage, they gain the same damage bonus (situational bonus) on their next attack against your target. If you choose healing, they instantly regain the same amount of HP.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- The damage bonus from your Pact of Glory ability increases to +4 and the HP regained increases to 4.<br/>- You can use your Quick Action to grant one ally within short range a free Opportunity Attack against a valid target of your choice. They suffer +1 bane on this attack.
**Pact of Piety**  | <em>Requires you to have picked Devotion when you learned Mysticism.</em><br/>You can only be sworn to one pact. You can’t gain this talent while you have another Pact talent.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 1) </strong>You swear a divine oath to your god or spirit patron from which you gain your mystical magic. You must always uphold the tenets associated with your chosen mystic tradition (as described in the Magic section). Breaking your oath means losing access to this talent’s abilities and you must atone to regain them (see the Magic section for details about breaking an oath).<br/>You gain +2 Focus.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> +2 Focus. You can use your Quick Action to send out an aura of piety affecting you and allies within short range. Each creature affected briefly gains resistance against damage from spells. You can use this ability in reaction to a spell being cast.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> +2 Focus. When you cast a spell of your tradition, you can choose to empower it with a divine miracle. The spell gains the following effects:<br/>- Add the spell damage or spell healing an additional time to the total damage or healing respectively.<br/>- The spell’s range (max. extreme) and duration (max. long) is increased by one step.<br/>You can use this ability once per scene.
**Pact of Protection**  | <em>Requires you to have picked Devotion when you learned Mysticism.</em><br/>You can only be sworn to one pact. You can’t gain this talent while you have another Pact talent.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 1) </strong>You swear a divine oath to your god or spirit patron from which you gain your mystical magic. You must always uphold the tenets associated with your chosen mystic tradition (as described in the Magic section). Breaking your oath means losing access to this talent’s abilities and you must atone to regain them (see the Magic section for details about breaking an oath).<br/>You gain +2 HP.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> +2 HP. Channeling your pact’s magic, you can restore up to a total of 10 HP. Using an Action, you can restore any amount of HP to a creature you are touching, up to the total amount available for this ability. The total amount of HP available is reduced each time you use this ability until it is depleted. You regain the maximum amount of HP for this ability after a night’s rest.<br/>You can spend 5 HP from this ability to cure any poison or natural disease affecting the target.<br/>You can spend 10 HP from this ability to instantly heal one Wound or one Fatigue from a creature. Each creature can only benefit from this option once per day.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> +2 HP. You gain the following abilities:<br/>- The total amount of HP you can restore with your Pact of Protection ability increases to 20.<br/>- You can use your Pact of Protection ability to restore HP as a Quick Action on your turn instead. When you use it as an Action, you can target any ally within medium range instead.
**Pact of Vengeance**  | <em>Requires you to have picked Devotion when you learned Mysticism.</em><br/>You can only be sworn to one pact. You can’t gain this talent while you have another Pact talent.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 1) </strong>You swear a divine oath to your god or spirit patron from which you gain your mystical magic. You must always uphold the tenets associated with your chosen mystic tradition (as described in the Magic section). Breaking your oath means losing access to this talent’s abilities and you must atone to regain them (see the Magic section for details about breaking an oath).<br/>As a Quick Action, you can speak a vow of enmity against any creature within short distance. You gain +1 boon on attacks against that target for a short duration. You can use this ability once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you hit the target of your vow of enmity with a weapon attack, you deal +2 damage (ability bonus) with it.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- The damage bonus from your Pact of Vengeance ability increases to +4.<br/>- When you hit the target of your vow with a strong or critical success, they are also briefly stunned. Each creature can only suffer this condition this way once per scene.<br/>- When the target of your vow dies or falls unconscious, you can use your Quick Action on the same or one of your following turns to repeat the vow of enmity against another creature within short range.
**Shape Changer**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you cast a spell that transforms your physical form (for example, Beast Form), you gain the following effects:<br/>- You gain 5 temporary HP. These will be applied on top of any amount of temporary HP you potentially get from the spell’s effect.<br/>- Add +2 damage to melee attacks using natural weapons (ability bonus).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you cast a spell that changes your physical form, you also gain the following effects:<br/>- Add +2 AV to your natural armor (treat this as part of the armor bonus).<br/>- When you attack with one of your natural weapons on your turn, you can use your Quick Action to make another attack with a natural weapon but suffer +1 bane on the roll.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you cast a spell that changes your physical form, you gain the following effects:<br/>- You gain resistance against physical damage.<br/>- Your gain resistance against fire, frost, lightning, or blast damage (choose one when casting the spell). You can also choose to deal damage of the chosen type with your natural weapon attacks.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 4)</strong> When you cast a spell that changes your physical form, you can choose for the form to become lasting. It loses its normal duration and persists until you end it willingly or you are knocked unconscious against your will. Sleeping or resting in your form does not end it.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 5)</strong> While transformed by a spell that changes your physical form, you can use your Quick Action to reshape your form. Exchange your chosen form or its trait for another valid choice of the same spell, within the same limits as when you cast it. You can do this once per turn.
