---
sidebar_position: 12
---

# Nature Talents

Name | Description
--- | ---
**Animal Companion**  | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>You can control an animal companion of a Tier equal or lower to your Nature. When you have to roll any test for your animal companion while you can see and hear it, you can use your Nature instead of the required skill for the roll.<br/>Choose any type of animal and apply it’s traits to the base statistics. Use the rules in the Mounts &amp; Companions section for how to control your animal companion.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> Choose one:<br/>- You can instead control two animal companions that are both of a Tier equal to or lower to your Nature - 1. Choose the same or different animal traits for them.<br/>- Your animal companion can learn two Combat Arts, appropriate for its types of attacks (ignoring the normal types of weapons the Combat Arts can be used with). It can use these Combat Arts while under your control. The normal rules for how and when to use Combat Arts also apply to your companion.<br/><br/>(<strong>Rank 3) </strong>Choose one:<br/>- When you or one of your animal companions under your control hits a target, the other ones gain +1 boon on attacks against that same target during their turn this round.<br/>- Your animal companions add your Nature to their total damage (ability bonus).<br/>
**Beast Lore**  | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>When you roll Nature to gain insights into an animal’s or other natural beast’s attitude, behaviors, or characteristics, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you roll Nature to gain insights into an animal’s or other natural beast’s attitude, behaviors, or characteristics, you gain +1 boon on the roll.<br/>- You can communicate simple ideas with an animal or other natural beast, that is not aggressive towards you, by rolling Spirit + Nature (the GM decides on the difficulty of your communication attempt). This can include asking them to do a task for you or gaining information about the creature‘s natural environment.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You can use your Action or Quick Action during your turn to roll Spirit + Nature vs. Resist against an animal or other natural beast.<br/>On a success, you charm them for a short duration. They can roll Mind + Insight at the end of their turns to end the effect early. The effect also ends early if they take damage from any source. Any creature you failed this roll against or that succeeded on their roll against this ability is immune against it for the rest of the scene.<br/>
**Expert Rider**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you have to roll to calm or not fall from your mount, you gain +1 boon on the roll.<br/>- Melee attack while mounted against unmounted enemies gain +1 boon.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You impose +1 bane on any melee attack against your mount.<br/>- When you use the Charge Combat Art while mounted and hit your target, increase the SL of the attack by one step (max. critical success).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You automatically succeed on rolls to calm your mount. <br/>- Add your Nature to your mounts AV.<br/>
**Field Medic**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you roll Spirit + Nature to save a creature from dying, gain +1 boon on the roll.<br/>- You can quickly attempt to treat a wounded creature during one delving turn. Make a Supply Check for materials and roll Spirit + Nature. On a success, one Injury the creature is suffering is treated.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you roll Spirit + Nature to save a creature from dying, add +1 to their die result regardless of the result of your roll.<br/>- When you roll a Supply Check for materials while treating Injuries, roll it twice and take the higher result.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you stop a creature from dying, they regain their consciousness and restore 2 x your Nature as HP.<br/>
**Knowledgeable Wanderer**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> +2 HP. You don‘t suffer +1 bane on rolls during travel for taking on multiple roles.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> +2 HP. You gain +1 boon on your travel rolls to navigate. Treat your blunders for these rolls as normal failures.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> +2 HP. You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you succeed on any of your travel rolls, also mark one travel progress (TODO).<br/>
**Plant Lore**  | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>When you roll Nature to gain information about a plant’s, herb’s, or plant creature’s behaviors, characteristics, or properties, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you roll Nature to gain information about a plant’s, herb’s, or plant creature’s behaviors, characteristics, or properties, you gain +1 boon on the roll.<br/>- When you forage materials during travel, you gain +1 unit of them.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> XXX
**Poison Maker**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You can spend one exploration turn to turn natural ingredients into poison. Choose one of the following poisons:<br/>- Weapon Poison (weak)<br/>- …<br/>Make a Supply check for your materials and roll Mind + Nature. On a success, you gain the chosen poison. <br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When making poison, you can also choose one of the following poisons:<br/>- Weapon Poison (decent)<br/>- …<br/>Make a Supply check for your materials and roll a hard Mind + Nature test. On a success, you gain the chosen poison.  <br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When making poison, you can also choose one of the following poisons:<br/>- Weapon Poison (strong)<br/>- …<br/>Make a Supply check for your materials and roll a very hard Mind + Nature test. On a success, you gain the chosen poison.  <br/>

