---
sidebar_position: 16
---

# Survival

Name | Description
--- | ---
**Explorer of Nature**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> Choose one of the following environments: Desert, Forest, Mountain, Plains, Sea, Swamp, or Tundra.<br/>When exploring or traveling in the chosen environment, and you roll Survival or Nature related to the environment or its inhabitants, you can choose to re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> Choose a second environment.<br/>You also gain the following abilities when exploring or traveling in one of your chosen environments:<br/>- If you are the navigator, reduce the amount of options you have to choose from a blunder or failure by one.<br/>- If you are the scout, reduce the Encounter Die by one step regardless of the outcome of your roll.<br/>- If you roll to gather supplies during exploration or travel and you succeed on the roll, you always gain one more unit of supply available (if multiple types of supply can be chosen, choose one).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> Choose a third environment. You also gain the following abilities when exploring or traveling in one of your chosen environments:<br/>- XXX
**Makeshift Artisan**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You can take one exploration turn to craft a makeshift weapon, simple tool, or primitive ammo from natural materials you have available. Choose between any light weapon, piece of gear, or unit of ammo (arrows, bolts, or throwing stones) of Quality 1 or 2. Spend 1 use of materials and roll Agility + Survival. On a success, you create a Quality 1 version of your chosen weapon, gear, or ammo. The crafted item has the fragile property.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You can also craft Quality 1 versions of non-light weapons. When crafting a makeshift heavy weapon, spend 2 uses of materials instead.<br/>- On a hit with a makeshift weapon, you can choose to forcefully destroy it. When doing so, add +2 damage for each use the weapon had left (ability bonus).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You can choose to only use one delving turn to craft a makeshift item. When doing so, roll a hard Agility + Survival test instead.<br/>- Your makeshift weapons increase their weapon damage by 1 (enhancement bonus).<br/>- You makeshift ammo deals +2 damage (enhancement bonus).
**Monster Hunter**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You can use a Quick Action on your turn to focus your sight on one creature that is at least one size larger than you to analyze its movements and behaviors. Roll Spirit/Mind + Survival vs. Resist. On a success, add your Survival to the damage against them.<br/>This effect lasts a short duration or until you use it again against another larger creature. <br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> While you have a target with your Monster Hunter ability, you can Evade and Guard against them without spending a Quick Action.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3)</strong> While you have a target with your Monster Hunter ability and you hit them with an attack, you can choose to roll Spirit/Mind + Survival vs. Resist after the attack. On a success, they are briefly stunned. You can use this ability once per scene.
**Relentless Tracker**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you roll Survival to follow tracks, identify them, or gain information from them, you can choose to re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> XXX<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3)</strong> XXX
**Trap Maker**  | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You can use one exploration turn to lay a trap. Make a Supply check for your materials and roll Spirit + Survival. On a success, choose one of the following effects (or choose a fitting, individual effect):<br/>- Pit (a creature falls a short distance into the pit)<br/>- Falling Rocks (a creature takes 10 crush damage and falls prone)<br/>- Net (a creature is restrained by the net)<br/>You lay a trap with the chosen effect. It automatically activates once a creature comes into contact with it. Once activated, the target has to roll Agility + Athletics. On a failure, they suffer the trap‘s effect.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You can also use your Trap Maker ability during a delving turn. When doing so, make the Supply check twice and take the lower result.<br/>- When a creature has to roll for one of your traps, the difficulty of their roll is hard.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When a creature suffers your trap’s effect, add 2 x your Survival to the damage.<br/>- When a creature has to roll for one of your traps, the difficulty of their roll is very hard. 
**Wilderness Expert**  | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>While carrying Cook‘s Utensils, you can create rations from the food found in the wilderness. During a night’s rest and if your group successfully gathered food for the day, you can make a Spirit + Survival roll. On a success, you create a number of units of rations up to your Survival, provided you have enough leftovers.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you have to roll Survival to establish a camp, you gain +1 boon on the roll.<br/>- When you are attacked while resting, you can still roll Spirit + Perception to quickly wake up before the attack, but suffer +1 bane on the roll.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> XXX
