Name | Type | Size | HP | AV | Strength | Agility | Spirit | Mind | Parry | Dodge | Resist | Skills | Immunities | Resistances | Weaknesses | Attack 1 | Attack 2 | Ability 1 | Ability 2 | Ability 3
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---
**Ape** | Animal | any |  |  |  |  |  | 1 |  |  |  | Athletics, Fighting (-1), Perception, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Fist</strong> (<em>light</em>). Deals -1 weapon damage (min. 1). | <strong>Rock Throw </strong>(<em>ammo, crush, thrown (close/short)</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. | <strong>Natural Climber.</strong> This creature can climb without treating it as difficult terrain. | <strong>Tool Usage.</strong> This creature can use simple tools and weapons (only Quality 1) after being trained with them for at least a medium duration. | 
**Badger** | Animal | any |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Fighting (-1), Perception, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Bite</strong> (<em>pierce</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. | <strong>Claw</strong> (<em>light, slash</em>). Deals -1 weapon damage (min. 1). | <strong>Burrow. </strong>This creature can move freely through loose earth, treating it as difficult terrain. | <strong>Keen Scent.</strong> This creature gains +1 boon on Perception rolls based on smell. | <strong>Natural Climber.</strong> This creature can climb without treating it as difficult terrain.
**Bat** | Animal | any |  |  | -1 | 1 |  |  | -1 | 1 |  | Fighting (-1), Perception, Stealth, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Bite</strong> (<em>agile, pierce</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. On a strong or critical hit, the target is poisoned for a short duration. | <strong>Screech.</strong> Roll Agility + Perception vs. Resist against all creatures within a cone in short range. Deals -1 weapon damage (min. 1) (ignoring 1/2 AV) as blast damage. This creature can use this attack once per scene. | <strong>Echolocation (medium).</strong> This creature can perceive its surroundings without relying on sight within range, even around corners or behind cover. | <strong>Flying (Wings). </strong>This creature can fly with +1 Movement per turn. If on the ground, it can’t use more than 1 Movement per turn. | 
**Bear** | Animal | any | 10 | +1 (light) | 1 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Athletics, Fighting (-1), Fortitude, Perception, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Bite</strong> (<em>crush</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. On a strong or critical hit against a creature of equal or smaller Size, the target is grappled. While grappled, this attack can’t be used to attack any other target. | <strong>Claw</strong> (<em>light, slash</em>). Deals -1 weapon damage (min. 1). On a strong or critical hit against a creature of equal or smaller Size, the target is knocked prone. | <strong>Intimidating Roar. </strong>This creature can use an Action in combat to unleash a powerful roar. Roll Strength + Fortitude vs. Resist against each creature within short range. On a success, they are frightened of you. They can roll Spirit + Fortitude at the start of their turns. On a success, they stop being frightened. You can use this ability once per combat. | <strong>Powerful Build. </strong>Add +2 to this creature’s encumbrance and over-encumbrance limits. | 
**Beetle** | Animal | any |  | +2 (heavy) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Fighting (-1), Fortitude, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Horn</strong> (<em>pierce</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. On a strong or critical hit, the target is either knocked prone or pushed close (your choice). | <strong>Mandibles</strong> (<em>crush</em>). On a strong or critical hit against a creature of equal or smaller Size, the target is grappled. While grappled, this creature can’t attack any other target. | <strong>Flying (Wings). </strong>This creature can fly with +1 Movement per turn. If on the ground, it can’t use more than 1 Movement per turn. | <strong>Wall Climb. </strong>This creature can climb on any vertical surface without rolling. | 
**Bird** | Animal | any |  |  | -1 | 1 |  |  | -1 | 1 |  | Athletics, Fighting (-1), Perception, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Beak</strong> (<em>agile, pierce</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. On a strong or critical hit, the target suffers bleeding (2 x Tier). | <strong>Talons</strong> (<em>agile, light, slash</em>). Deals -1 weapon damage (min. 1). | <strong>Dive Attack. </strong>After flying at least a short distance downwards, this creature gains +1 boon on it’s next attack during the same turn. On a hit, increase the SL by one step (max. critical hit). | <strong>Flying (Wings). </strong>This creature can fly with +1 Movement per turn. If on the ground, it can’t use more than 1 Movement per turn. | <strong>Keen Eyes.</strong> This creature gains +1 boon on Perception rolls based on sight.
**Boar** | Animal | any | 10 | +1 (light) | 1 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Fighting (-1), Fortitude, Perception, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Tusks</strong> (<em>crush</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. |  | <strong>Gore Attack. </strong>After moving at least a short distance in a straight line, this creature gains +1 boon on it’s next attack during the same turn. On a hit, increase the SL by one step (max. critical hit). | <strong>Keen Scent.</strong> This creature gains +1 boon on Perception rolls based on smell. | <strong>Relentless. </strong>When this creature would suffer a Wound, it can choose to ignore it. This creature can use this ability once per day.
**Camel** | Animal | any | 10 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Athletics, Fighting (-1), Fortitude, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Bite</strong> (<em>crush</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. | <strong>Kick</strong> (<em>crush</em>). This creature can only use this attack if it skips all Movement this turn (before and after the attack). Deals +1 weapon damage. | <strong>Beast of Burden.</strong> This creature can be of large Size even for a Tier that normally doesn’t allow that Size. | <strong>Desert Adapted.</strong> This creature can ignore the penalty to Supply checks for extremely hot environments. | <strong>Powerful Build. </strong>Add +2 to this creature’s encumbrance and over-encumbrance limits.
**Cat** | Animal | any |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Athletics, Fighting (-1), Perception, Stealth, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Bite</strong> (<em>crush</em>). On a strong or critical hit against a creature of equal or smaller Size, the target is grappled. While grappled, this attack can’t be used to attack any other target. | <strong>Claw</strong> (<em>light, slash</em>). Deals -1 weapon damage (min. 1). | <strong>Keen Scent.</strong> This creature gains +1 boon on Perception rolls based on smell. | <strong>Night Vision.</strong> This creature can see one range category further from sources of bright and dim light. | <strong>Pounce.</strong> If this creature spend Movement towards it’s target during the turn it attacks, it gains +1 boon on the attack. Also on a strong or critical hit against a creature of equal or smaller Size, the target is knocked prone.
**Constrictor Snake** | Animal | any | 10 | +1 (light) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Athletics, Fighting (-1), Perception, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Bite</strong> (<em>pierce</em>). Deals -1 weapon damage (min. 1). | <strong>Constrict</strong> (<em>crush</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. On a strong or critical hit and if the target is the same Size or smaller, the target is also grappled and restrained. While constricted, this attack can’t be used to attack any other target. | <strong>Blindsight (close). </strong>This creature can perceive the location of creatures and objects within range that aren’t behind full cover. | <strong>Deep Breath.</strong> This creature can hold their breath underwater for a short duration and can swim with normal Movement. | 
**Crab** | Animal | any | 10 | +2 (heavy) | 1 | -1 |  |  | 1 | -1 |  | Fighting (-1), Fortitude, Stealth, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Pincer</strong> (<em>crush</em>). Deals normal damage. On a strong or critical hit against a creature of equal or smaller Size, the target is grappled. This creature has two pincers it can attack with. While grappled, this attack can't be used with the same pincer against any other target. |  | <strong>Aquatic.</strong> This creature is immune to drowning and can swim with normal Movement. | <strong>Hard Shell.</strong> This creature can use the Guard Quick Action treating it’s shell as a shield. | <strong>Slow Movement. </strong>This creature can’t spend more than 1 Movement per turn.
**Crocodile** | Animal | any |  | +2 (heavy) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Fighting (-1), Stealth, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Bite</strong> (<em>crush</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. On a strong or critical hit against a creature of equal or smaller Size, the target is grappled. While grappled, this attack can't be used against any other target. | <strong>Death Roll.</strong> Can only be used against a target grappled by this creature. This creature makes a bite attack and gains +1 boon on the roll. On a hit, the target is knocked prone. | <strong>Ambush Predator.</strong> When this creature hits an enemy that is unaware of them with an attack for the first time during a scene, increase the SL of their attack by one step (max. critical success). | <strong>Amphibious.</strong> This creature can hold their breath underwater for a medium duration and can swim with normal Movement. | 
**Dog** | Animal | any |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Athletics, Fighting (-1), Perception, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Bite</strong> (<em>pierce</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. On a strong or critical hit against a creature of equal or smaller Size, the target is grappled. While grappled, this attack can't be used against any other target. |  | <strong>Keen Scent.</strong> This creature gains +1 boon on Perception rolls based on smell. | <strong>Pack Tactics.</strong> This creature gains +1 boon on attacks against any enemy in melee range if this creature has more allies in melee range than enemies. | <strong>Track Scent. </strong>This creature can track a scent trail for up to a day after it was made, unless some foreign force influenced the scent (for example, a heavy rain).
**Donkey** | Animal | any | 10 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Athletics, Fighting (-1), Fortitude, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Bite</strong> (<em>crush</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. | <strong>Kick</strong> (<em>crush</em>). This creature can only use this attack if it skips all Movement this turn (before and after the attack). Deals +1 weapon damage. | <strong>Beast of Burden.</strong> This creature can be of large Size even for a Tier that normally doesn’t allow that Size. | <strong>Sure-Footed. </strong>This creature gains +1 boon on rolls to avoid being knocked prone or pushed. It also ignores difficult terrain from rocky or mountainous areas. | <strong>Powerful Build. </strong>Add +2 to this creature’s encumbrance and over-encumbrance limits.
**Elephant** | Animal | any | 10 | +1 (light) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Athletics, Fighting (-1), Fortitude, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Stomp</strong> (<em>crush</em>). This creature can only use this attack if it skips all Movement this turn (before and after the attack). Deals +1 weapon damage. On a strong or critical hit, the target is knocked prone. | <strong>Tusk</strong> (<em>crush</em>). On a strong or critical hit, the target is either knocked prone or pushed close (your choice). | <strong>Beast of Burden.</strong> This creature can be of large Size even for a Tier that normally doesn’t allow that Size. | <strong>Powerful Build. </strong>Add +2 to this creature’s encumbrance and over-encumbrance limits. | <strong>Trample. </strong>When this creature moves through the space of a creature at least one Size smaller, it can make a Stomp attack against that creature as a Quick Action.
**Frog** | Animal | any |  |  | -1 | 1 |  |  | -1 | 1 |  | Athletics, Fighting (-1), Perception, Stealth, Survival |  |  |  | Bite (<em>agile</em>). Deals -1 weapon damage. On a strong or critical hit, the target is grappled. On a hit against a target of smaller Size already grappled before the attack, this creature can choose to swallow them. | <strong>Tongue</strong> (<em>agile, reach</em>). Deals no damage. On a hit, the target is grappled and pulled a close distance towards this creature. While grappled, this attack can't be used against any other target. | <strong>Amphibious.</strong> This creature can hold their breath underwater for a medium duration and can swim with normal Movement. | <strong>Strong Leap.</strong> This creature can jump up to a short distance without rolling, even without moving before. | <strong>Swallow.</strong> This creature can only swallow one smaller creature at a time. When doing so, the target is no longer grappled. Instead, the target becomes blinded and restrained. It also takes lasting acid damage equal to normal weapon damage. When this creature takes a Wound or dies, it releases the swallowed creature and they are spit out prone in melee range.
**Hippopotamus** | Animal | any | 10 | +1 (light) | 1 | -1 |  |  |  |  |  | Fighting (-1), Fortitude, Perception, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Bite</strong> (<em>crush</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. On a strong or critical hit, the target suffers bleeding (2 x Tier). |  | <strong>Deep Breath.</strong> This creature can hold their breath underwater for a short duration and can swim with normal Movement. | <strong>Gore Attack. </strong>After moving at least a short distance in a straight line, this creature gains +1 boon on it’s next attack during the same turn. On a hit, increase the SL by one step (max. critical hit). | <strong>Relentless. </strong>When this creature would suffer a Wound, it can choose to ignore it. This creature can use this ability once per day.
**Horse** | Animal | any | 10 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Athletics, Fighting (-1), Fortitude, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Bite</strong> (<em>crush</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. | <strong>Kick</strong> (<em>crush</em>). This creature can only use this attack if it skips all Movement this turn (before and after the attack). Deals +1 weapon damage. | <strong>Beast of Burden.</strong> This creature can be of large Size even for a Tier that normally doesn’t allow that Size. | <strong>Fast Movement. </strong>This creature has +1 Movement and can cover twice the normal distance during travel. | <strong>Powerful Build. </strong>Add +2 to this creature’s encumbrance and over-encumbrance limits.
**Lizard** | Animal | any |  | +2 (heavy) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Fighting (-1), Perception, Stealth, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Bite</strong> (<em>crush</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. On a strong or critical hit against a creature of equal or smaller Size, the target is grappled. While grappled, this attack can’t be used to attack any other target. | <strong>Tail</strong> (<em>crush</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. On a strong or critical hit, the target is pushed close. | <strong>Amphibious.</strong> This creature can hold their breath underwater for a medium duration and can swim with normal Movement. | <strong>Natural Climber.</strong> This creature can climb without treating it as difficult terrain. | 
**Ox** | Animal | any | 10 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Fighting (-1), Fortitude, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Tusks</strong> (<em>crush</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. On a strong or critical hit, the target is either knocked prone or pushed close (your choice). |  | <strong>Beast of Burden.</strong> This creature can be of large Size even for a Tier that normally doesn’t allow that Size. | <strong>Powerful Build. </strong>Add +2 to this creature’s encumbrance and over-encumbrance limits. | <strong>Gore Attack. </strong>After moving at least a short distance in a straight line, this creature gains +1 boon on it’s next attack during the same turn. On a hit, increase the SL by one step (max. critical hit).
**Poisonous Snake** | Animal | any |  |  | -1 | 1 |  |  | -1 | 1 |  | Athletics, Fighting (-1), Perception, Stealth, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Bite</strong> (<em>agile, pierce</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. On a strong or critical hit, the target also takes lasting poison damage (2 x Tier) and is poisoned for a short duration. |  | <strong>Blindsight (close). </strong>This creature can perceive the location of creatures and objects within range that aren’t behind full cover. | <strong>Deep Breath.</strong> This creature can hold their breath underwater for a short duration and can swim with normal Movement. | 
**Rat** | Animal | any |  |  | -1 | 1 |  |  | -1 | 1 |  | Fighting (-1), Perception, Stealth, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Bite</strong> (<em>agile, pierce</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. On a strong or critical hit, the target suffers bleeding (2 x Tier). |  | <strong>Keen Scent.</strong> This creature gains +1 boon on Perception rolls based on smell. | <strong>Natural Climber.</strong> This creature can climb without treating it as difficult terrain. | <strong>Pack Tactics.</strong> This creature gains +1 boon on attacks against any enemy in melee range if this creature has more allies in melee range than enemies.
**Spider** | Animal | any |  |  | -1 | 1 |  |  | -1 | 1 |  | Fighting (-1), Fortitude, Perception, Stealth, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Bite</strong> (<em>agile, pierce</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. On a strong or critical hit, the target also takes lasting poison damage (2 x Tier) and is poisoned for a short duration. | <strong>Web</strong> (<em>thrown (close/short)</em>). Deals no damage. On a hit, the target is restrained by the web. The web has 10 HP per Tier (min. 1), 0 AV and 8 Defense. The target can also roll Strength + Agility vs. this creature’s Parry as an Action on their turn. On a success, they escape the web and are no longer restrained. This creature can use this ability once per scene. | <strong>Spider Climb. </strong>This creature can climb on any surface, even upside down, without rolling. | <strong>Web Walker.</strong> This creature can move on webs normally. It also knows the exact location of any creature touching it’s web while standing on it. | 
**Stag** | Animal | any | 10 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Fighting (-1), Perception, Survival |  |  |  | <strong>Antlers</strong> (<em>pierce</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. On a strong or critical hit, the target is either knocked prone or pushed close (your choice). | <strong>Kick</strong> (<em>crush</em>). This creature can only use this attack if it skips all Movement this turn (before and after the attack). Deals +1 weapon damage. | <strong>Fast Movement. </strong>This creature has +1 Movement and can cover twice the normal distance during travel. | <strong>Gore Attack. </strong>After moving at least a short distance in a straight line, this creature gains +1 boon on it’s next attack during the same turn. On a hit, increase the SL by one step (max. critical hit). | <strong>Powerful Build. </strong>Add +2 to this creature’s encumbrance and over-encumbrance limits.
**Turtle** | Animal | any | 10 | +2 (heavy) | 1 | -1 |  |  | 1 | -1 |  | Fighting (-1), Fortitude, Survival |  |  |  | Bite (crush). Deals normal weapon damage. On a strong or critical hit, the target suffers bleeding (2 x Tier). |  | <strong>Amphibious.</strong> This creature can hold their breath underwater for a medium duration and can swim with normal Movement. | <strong>Shell Defense.</strong> As a Quick Action, this creature can withdraw into its shell, gaining the effects of the Guard Quick Action and +2 AV but becoming unable to move or attack until it uses another Quick Action to emerge. | <strong>Slow Movement (Land).</strong> This creature can’t use more than 1 Movement per turn while on land.
**Air Elemental** | Elemental | any |  |  | -1 | 1 |  |  |  | 1 |  | Athletics, Fighting (-1), Perception | bleeding, grappled, paralyzed, poison, poisoned, prone, restrained, unconscious | blast, lightning, physical | fire | <strong>Slam</strong> (<em>agile, crush</em>). On a strong or critical hit, the target is pushed close. | <strong>Lightning Strike </strong>(<em>thrown (medium)</em>). Deals lightning damage with -1 weapon damage (min. 1). On a strong or critical hit, the target is briefly staggered. | <strong>Air Form.</strong> This creature can move through any space as narrow as one centimetre. | <strong>Flying (hover). </strong>This creature can fly freely by hovering in the air with +1 Movement per turn. | 
**Earth Elemental** | Elemental | any | 10 | +2 (heavy) | 1 | -1 |  |  | 1 | -1 |  | Fighting (-1), Fortitude | bleeding, poison, poisoned, prone, unconscious | psychic | blast | <strong>Slam</strong> (<em>crush</em>). On a strong or critical hit, the target falls prone. | <strong>Earth Spikes</strong> (<em>crush</em>). Target all creatures in melee range. On a hit, subtract the weapon damage once from the total damage against each target. | <strong>Earth Glide. </strong>This creature can burrow through natural earth and stone as part of it’s normal Movement. | <strong>Tremorsense. </strong>This creature can perceive the location of moving creatures and objects on connected surfaces with it’s own in medium range. | 
**Fire Elemental** | Elemental | any |  |  | -1 | 1 |  |  |  | 1 |  | Fighting (-1), Fortitude, Perception | bleeding, burning, fire, grappled, paralyzed, poison, poisoned, prone, restrained, unconscious | acid, physical (except water) | frost, physical (water) | <strong>Touch</strong> (<em>agile</em>). Deals normal weapon damage as fire damage.. On a strong or critical hit, inflicts burning (equal to 2 x Tier) for a short duration. | <strong>Flame Bolt </strong>(<em>thrown (short/medium)</em>). Deals -1 weapon damage (min. 1) as fire damage. On a strong or critical hit, inflicts burning (equal to 2 x Tier) for a short duration. | <strong>Fire Form.</strong> This creature can move through any space as narrow as a keyhole. This creature is immune against fire damage and burning. This creature illuminates the area in short distance around it in bright light. If this creature is hit by an attack at melee range, the attacker suffers it’s Tier x 2 fire damage (ignoring AV). If this creature comes into contact with a large amount of water, it takes 5 damage (ignoring AV) each turn doing so. | <strong>Flying (hover). </strong>This creature can fly freely by hovering in the air with +1 Movement per turn. | 
**Water Elemental** | Elemental | any |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Fighting (-1), Fortitude | bleeding, grappled, paralyzed, poison, poisoned, prone, restrained, unconscious | fire, physical | frost | <strong>Slam</strong> (<em>crush</em>). On a strong or critical hit, the target falls prone. | <strong>Whelm </strong>(<em>crush</em>)<strong>.</strong> This melee attack can only target creatures of the same or smaller Size than this creature. If targeting smaller creatures in melee range, you can target multiple, where two creatures of a particular Size count as one creature of one Size larger (for example, two small goblins count as one medium creature). The combined Size of all target’s can’t exceed this creature’s Size.<br/>Deals -1 weapon damage (min. 1). On a hit, each target is grappled, restrained, and suffocating until this creature uses another Action than Whelm on a following turn or is moved out of melee range. On a failure, the target is pushed close. | <strong>Aquatic (fast).</strong> This creature is immune to drowning and can swim with normal Movement. Also, this creature can swim with +2 Movement per turn. | <strong>Water Form.</strong> This creature can move through any space as narrow as one centimetre. If this creature suffers frost damage, it is briefly slowed. | 
**Skeleton** | Undead | any |  | +2 (heavy) |  |  |  |  |  | 1 |  | Fighting (-1), Perception | bleeding, blinded, charmed, frightened, poison, poisoned, unconscious | necrotic | crush weapons, radiant | <strong>Claw</strong> (<em>light, slash</em>). Deals -1 weapon damage (min. 1). | <strong>Weapon Attack</strong>. If equipped with weapons, this creature can use them normally with its Fighting skill. | <strong>Undead Nature.</strong> This creature doesn't need to breathe, eat, drink, or sleep. |  | 
**Zombie** | Undead | any | 5 | +1 (light) | 1 | -1 |  |  | 1 | -1 |  | Fighting (-1), Fortitude | bleeding, blinded, charmed, frightened, poison, poisoned, unconscious | necrotic | radiant | <strong>Claw</strong> (<em>crush</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. On a strong or critical hit, the target is grappled. | <strong>Rotten Bite</strong> (<em>crush</em>). Can only be used against grappled targets. Deals normal weapon damage as poison damage. | <strong>Undead Nature.</strong> This creature doesn't need to breathe, eat, drink, or sleep. | <strong>Rotting Slowness.</strong> This creature can only move or take an Action per turn, not both. This creature can't use Quick Actions. | 
**Chuul** | Aberration | any | 10 | +2 (heavy) | 1 | -1 |  |  | 1 | -1 |  | Fighting (-1), Fortitude, Perception | poison, poisoned | psychic | blast | <strong>Pincer</strong> (<em>crush, light</em>). Deals -1 weapon damage (min. 1). On a strong or critical hit and if the target is smaller than this creature, the target is grappled and restrained. While grappled, that pincer can’t be used to attack any other target and this creature can use it’s Quick Action on it’s turn to make an attack with it’s Tentacles with +1 boon against the target. | <strong>Tentacles</strong> (<em>pierce</em>). This attack deals no damage. On a hit, the target is poisoned for a short duration. While poisoned by this attack, the target is also stunned. They can roll Strength + Fortitude at the end of their turns to end the effect early. | <strong>Aquatic.</strong> This creature is immune to drowning and can swim with normal Movement. | <strong>Magic Sense (long)</strong>. This creature can intuitively sense sources of magic within long range. | <strong>Night Vision.</strong> This creature can see one range category further from sources of bright and dim light.
**Floating Eye** | Aberration | tiny |  | +2 (heavy) | -1 | 1 |  |  |  |  |  | Arcana (-1), Fighting (-1), Perception, Stealth | prone |  | radiant | <strong>Bite</strong> (<em>crush</em>). Deals -1 weapon damage (min. 1). | <strong>Eye Rays.</strong> This creature can shoot two randomly chosen arcane eye rays (roll 1d4 per eye ray). Choose one or two targets within medium range before rolling the eye rays effects. Roll Agility + Arcana once per eye ray and apply the effects:<br/><strong>1. Dazing Ray.</strong> Compare the result vs. Resist. On a success, the target is charmed and distracted for a short duration by this creature.<br/><strong>2. Fear Ray. </strong>Compare the result vs. Resist. On a success, the target is briefly frightened.<br/><strong>3. Frost Ray. </strong>Treat the roll as a range attack vs. Dodge. Deals +1 weapon damage as frost damage.<br/><strong>4. Telekinetic Ray. </strong>Compare the result vs. Parry. On a success, the target is pushed a short distance away from this creature. If the target is of smaller Size than this creature, this creature can move the target freely in any direction for a short distance instead. | <strong>Darkvision (medium/long). </strong>This creature can see at medium range in absolute darkness as in bright light and up to a long distance as in dim light. | <strong>Flying (hover). </strong>This creature can fly freely by hovering in the air. | 
**Grell** | Aberration | any |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Fighting (-1), Perception, Stealth | blinded, prone |  |  | <strong>Beak</strong> (<em>crush</em>). Deals normal weapon damage. | <strong>Tentacles</strong> (<em>pierce</em>). If this creature is Medium or larger, this attack has reach. On a strong or critical hit, the target is grappled and poisoned for a short duration. While poisoned by this attack, the target is also stunned. They can roll Strength + Fortitude at the end of their turns to end the effect early. While grappling, this creature can use it’s Quick Action on it’s turn to make a Beak attack with +1 boon against the target. | <strong>Blindsight (medium).</strong> This creature can perceive it‘s surroundings at medium range without relying on sight. | <strong>Flying (hover).</strong> This creature can fly freely by hovering in the air. | 
