Name | Skill Requirement | Description
--- | --- | ---
**Arcane Spell Knowledge** | Arcana | You can take higher ranks for this talent without having taken it’s lower ranks provided your Mysticism also has the required rank.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 1)</strong> +2 Focus. Learn two rank 0 or 1 spells for any of your disciplines, or adopt a new discipline and learn one new rank 0 spell for it. You can choose this Talent multiple times.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>+2 Focus.<strong> </strong>Learn two rank 2 or lower spells for any of your disciplines. You can choose this Talent multiple times.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) +</strong>2 Focus.<strong> </strong>Learn two rank 3 or lower spells for any of your disciplines. You can choose this Talent multiple times.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 4) </strong>+2 Focus. Learn two rank 4 or lower spells for any of your disciplines. You can choose this Talent multiple times.
**Battle Mage** | Arcana | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you are attacked by an enemy and they roll against your Parry or Dodge, you can use your Quick Action and spend 2 Focus to conjure a momentary barrier of arcane force which adds your Arcana to both your Parry or Dodge against that attack. You can spend another 2 Focus for the same effect against further attacks until your next turn without using another Quick Action.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You can roll Mind + Arcana for weapon attacks.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>When you hit with a melee or ranged weapon, add your Arcana to the damage (ability bonus).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 4)</strong> After you have attacked with a melee or ranged weapon, you can use your Quick Action to cast any rank 0 spell targeting a single creature.
**Inexhaustible Mind** | Arcana | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> During a short break, you can meditate to recharge your mind’s power and regain half your max. Focus. You can use this ability a number of times per day equal to your Arcana.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you have no Focus left, you can still cast spells by spending 2 HP for every 1 Focus you would have to spend normally.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you use your Inexhaustible Mind ability during a short break, you regain all your Focus instead.
**Mana Shield** | Arcana | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you successfully cast an arcane spell, you gain 2 + the spell's rank as AV (armor bonus). If you cast another arcane spell, only keep the highest AV bonus from this ability. This bonus lasts for a short duration or until you have taken damage from any source.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> AV from your Mana Shield ability doesn‘t end from taking damage.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you take damage, you can choose to double the AV bonus from your Mana Shield ability against it, but the ability‘s bonus immediately ends afterward.
**Master of Fundamentals** | Arcana | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When you cast an arcane rank 0 spell, you can choose to re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you hit with an arcane rank 0 spell that deals damage, add your Arcana to the damage (ability bonus).<br/>- Instead of attacking for an Opportunity Attack, you can choose to cast an arcane rank 0 spell against the target.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>When you cast an arcane rank 0 spell on your turn, you can use a Quick Action to cast the same spell again against any target but suffer +1 bane on the roll.
**Spellblade** | Arcana | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>You can infuse one of your spells into a weapon attack. Choose any of your arcane rank 0 non-ritual spells that target the Defense of one or more enemies within your weapon‘s range.<br/>Roll your normal weapon attack. Treat the roll as an attack and as casting the chosen spell. With this attack, you can’t use any other abilities or effects that would apply to casting a spell.<br/>On a hit, apply the spell‘s effects according to the SL of your attack, in addition to your normal weapon attack. You add its spell damage (without the spell’s base damage) to your attack’s damage and the attack’s damage type becomes that of the spell. Also, spend the spell‘s Focus cost, but increase it by 2.<br/><strong></strong><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>You can also use arcane rank 1 non-ritual spells that target the Defense of one or more enemies within your weapon‘s range with your Spellblade ability.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>You can also use arcane rank 2 non-ritual spells that target the Defense of one or more enemies within your weapon‘s range with your Spellblade ability.
**Spellweaver** | Arcana | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>+2 Focus. You are able to use Metamagic Arts along with your arcane spells. You learn any two Metamagic Arts.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>+2 Focus. Learn two more Metamagic Arts.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>+2 Focus. Learn two more Metamagic Arts.
**Wild Overload** | Arcana | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When you cast an arcane spell of rank 1 or higher, you can choose to overload it with wild arcane energy before making the spell attack roll. If you do, roll 1d6 before your casting roll and apply the result:<br/><strong>1.</strong> Roll on the Wild Surge table (d100) and apply the result directly after your spell’s effect.<br/><strong>2.</strong> The spell's target or target location is randomly determined (roll randomly among valid targets within range, or shift the target location 1d4 close distances in a random direction). If you fail your spell roll, you lose helf the spell’s Focus cost instead.<br/><strong>3.</strong> You suffer +1 bane on your spell roll.<br/><strong>4.</strong> You gain +1 boon on your spell roll.<br/><strong>5.</strong> Heighten the spell by one rank. If the spell requires a static target Difficulty, it is also increased by one rank.<br/><strong>6.</strong> Choose any one Metamagic Art you know and apply it to the spell without increasing its Focus cost.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you use your wild overload ability, you can spend 2 Focus to roll 2d6 instead and pick one of the results.<br/>- When you roll on the Wild Surge table (d100), you can spend 4 Focus to re-roll the result. You must take the new result.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>When you use your wild overload ability, you can choose any result instead of rolling. You can use this ability once per scene. When you roll on the Wild Surge table (d100), you regain access to this ability.
**Ammo Specialist** | Archery | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When you have to roll a Supply check for your ammo, roll twice and take the higher result.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>You carry special types of ammo with you. When attacking with a ranged weapon that uses ammo, you can choose between <strong>barbed</strong> (slash), <strong>bodkin</strong> (pierce), and <strong>blunt</strong> (crush). Your ranged weapon gains the property of the chosen option for this attack. Immediately after the attack, make a Supply check for your ammo.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you attack with special ammo from your Ammo Specialist ability, you also add your Archery to the damage (ability bonus).
**Art of Archery** | Archery | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>You learn two more Combat Arts for any ranged weapons.<br/><br/>(<strong>Rank 2) </strong>You learn two more Combat Arts for any ranged weapons.<br/><br/>(<strong>Rank 3) </strong>You gain the following abilities:<br/><strong></strong>- Whenever you can learn new Combat Arts for any ranged weapons, you can now choose Supreme Combat Arts instead. <br/>- You learn two more Combat Arts or Supreme Combat Arts for any ranged weapons.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 4)</strong> You learn two more Combat Arts or Supreme Combat Arts for any ranged weapons.
**Crossbow Mastery** | Archery | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You can also reload your crossbow using a Quick Action on your turn.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> On a strong or critical hit with a crossbow, ignore 1/2 the target‘s AV.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you hit with a crossbow, you can use your Quick Action to make the target roll a hard Strength + Fortitude test. On a failure, the target is briefly stunned. On a success, the target is briefly shaken instead.
**Disciplined Archer** | Archery | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>You can choose to re-roll any attack roll with a ranged weapon once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You can use your Combat Arts for ranged weapons two times per scene each, but each individual Combat Art not two turns in a row.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>When you hit with a ranged weapon, you can choose to use your Quick Action to make another attack against any target but suffer +1 bane on the roll.
**Expert Slinger** | Archery | (<strong>Rank 1)</strong> When you have to make a Supply check for a bundle of thrown weapons, roll twice and take the higher result.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you hit with a thrown weapon at close or short range, add your Archery to the damage (ability bonus).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> After attacking with a thrown weapon on your turn, you can choose to immediately spend 1 Movement without provoking Opportunity Attacks. You can use this ability once between your turns.
**Rapid Shot** | Archery | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When using your Action to attack with a non-heavy ranged weapon, you can attack twice with it, but you suffer +1 bane on both attacks.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You suffer no banes from using your Rapid Shot ability.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> On a strong or critical hit with a non-heavy ranged weapon, the target suffers marked (4).
**Reflexive Shooter** | Archery | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You don’t suffer banes from shooting into or out of melee range. If you roll a blunder for ranged attacks shooting into melee, you still accidentally hit another creature at random.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>When an enemy enters your close range, you can use your Quick Action to make an Opportunity Attack with a ranged weapon you are holding against them.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>When an enemy leaves your close range, you can use your Quick Action to make an Opportunity Attack with a ranged weapon you are holding against them.
**Sharpshooter** | Archery | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When attacking with a ranged weapon, you can ignore the first bane you would suffer from attacking beyond normal range.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>When attacking with a ranged weapon, you suffer no banes from attacking beyond normal range.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3) </strong>When you skip all Movement this turn (before and after the attack) and when you attack with a ranged weapon at long range or more, you can inflict marked (equal to your Archery) on your target immediately before the attack.
**Strong Grip** | Archery | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> Using the Power Shot Combat Art with a heavy ranged weapon doesn't impose +1 bane on your attack.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> If your Strength die is one or more steps larger than the heavy property of a ranged weapon, you can choose to attack with it as if it were a non-heavy weapon. Effects that rely on a heavy weapon will not meet their condition anymore when doing so.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you hit with a heavy ranged weapon, add +1/2 Strength to the damage.
**Athletic Movement** | Athletics | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When rolling Athletics during special types of Movement, such as crawling, crouching, climbing, swimming, while jumping, or when using the Vault action, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You can also use the Vault Action using a Quick Action on your turn.<br/>- During special types of Movement, such as crawling, crouching, climbing, and swimming, you don‘t move as in difficult terrain.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>You gain the following abilities:<br/><strong></strong>- When jumping, you can jump a short distance instead.<br/>- When you take falling damage, treat your distance as one category lower.
**Bulky** | Athletics | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>Gain +2 HP. Add +2 to your carrying capacity.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> Gain +2 HP. You gain the following abilities:<br/>- Add +3 to your carrying capacity instead.<br/>- When you are moving through difficult terrain or otherwise are required to spend extra Movement, you can use your Quick Action to move without spending extra Movement for the rest of your turn.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> Gain +2 HP. You gain the following abilities:<br/>- Add +4 to your carrying capacity instead.<br/>- While grappling, being grappled, or restrained, you count as a creature one Size larger than normal.
**Escape Artist** | Athletics | You can’t use any of these abilities while wearing heavy armor.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you would be grappled, knocked prone, or pushed, you can use your Quick Action to roll Agility + Athletics vs. the source’s Parry. On a success, you ignore  the effect.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>Whenever you can roll Athletics with an Action to end the effect that grapples or restrains you, you can use your Quick Action to automatically choose to succeed on the roll.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>Your Movement doesn’t provoke Opportunity Attacks.
**Evasion** | Athletics | You can’t use any of these abilities while wearing heavy armor.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You can also use the Retreat Action using a Quick Action on your turn.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain +1 Quick Action you can use between your turns. You can still only use one of your Quick Actions during your turn.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you take physical damage from any source, you can choose to halve that damage once per scene (after subtracting AV).
**Fast Stride** | Athletics | You can’t use any of these abilities while wearing heavy armor.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 1) </strong>You can also use the Dash Action using a Quick Action on your turn.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> During your turns, you get +1 Movement.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>After a successful attack, you can choose to immediately move a close or short distance without provoking Opportunity Attacks.
**Grappler** | Athletics | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When you hit a target no more than one size larger than you with an unarmed attack or with a brawling weapon, you can choose to also grapple the target. When doing so, this attack also counts as a Grapple Action. On a hit, the target is grappled by you.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> While you are grappling a creature and you hit them again with an unarmed attack or with a brawling weapon, you can choose to also restrain them while they are grappled by you.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- Creatures larger than you don’t impose banes on your grapple rolls and don’t gain boons from their Size to end your grapple against them.<br/>- While grappling, add your Athletics as damage to attacks against the grappled target (ability bonus).
**Light Armor Mastery** | Athletics | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> While wearing light armor and being attacked in melee, you can Evade without spending a Quick Action once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> Ignore the noisy property of light armor you wear. <br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You can use your Light Armor Mastery ability once between your turns instead.
**Stand your Ground** | Athletics | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you would be knocked prone or pushed by a creature, you can use your Quick Action to ignore being knocked prone or reduce the distance you are pushed by one step (if you are pushed close, instead you aren‘t pushed at all).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>When an enemy in your melee range attacks any creature other than you, you can use a Quick Action for an Opportunity Attack against them.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>When you use your Stand your Ground ability to ignore being knocked prone or reducing the distance your are being pushed, you can choose to also use the Shove or Trip Action for free against the source.
**Supernatural Mobility** | Athletics | High rank talent allowing supernatural jumps and other forms of movement
**Artisan** | Crafting | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When you take Crafting activity during downtime, you can choose to re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you take Crafting activity during downtime and you check 1 or more successes, you can check +1 success.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you take Crafting activity during downtime and you check 1 or more successes, you can check +2 successes.
**Efficient Worker** | Crafting | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you have to roll a Supply check for materials, roll twice and take the higher result.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you use the Crafting downtime activity and you finish crafting an item, regain 1/10 of the item‘s cost in coin.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you use the Crafting downtime activity, you always check at least 1 success, regardless of your roll.
**Maintenance** | Crafting | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>You can also use your repair kit to quickly repair one item during a short break. When doing so, you automatically lose one unit of materials instead of rolling a Supply check (even on a failure).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>When you roll Agility/Mind + Crafting to repair an item, you can re-roll the test once per day.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> Due to your supreme equipment maintenance, when you or one of your allies fails on a Durability check for an item, they can choose to succeed instead. You and each of your allies can benefit from this ability once per day. Allies have to have been with you during the last night‘s rest to qualify for this ability.
**Master Artisan** | Crafting | <em>Requires Artisan Rank 3</em>
**Peak Performance** | Crafting | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You temporarily utilize the full potential of a weapon or unit of ammo. You must have a crafting kit on you to use this ability. During a night’s rest, choose one weapon or unit of ammo. Apply one of the following effects based on the type of item it is:<br/>- Ammo: It deals +2 damage.<br/>- Weapon: Increase it’s weapon damage by 1 (enhancement bonus).<br/>These effects last for a long duration or until your next rest.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You can use Peak Performance on a number of items equal to your Crafting during the same rest.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you use Peak Performance on an item, you can also target armor, shields, and helmets. Apply one of the following effects:<br/>- Armor, Shield, or Helmet: It grants +1 AV (enhancement bonus).<br/>- Ammo: It deals +4 damage.<br/>- Weapon: Increase it’s weapon damage by 2 (enhancement bonus).
**Quick Construction** | Crafting | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>You are able to quickly improvise the construction of an item using what materials you have on hand. You must have a set of relevant tools on you to use this ability. During an exploration turn (one hour), choose any type of medium or smaller item of Quality 1 or 2 (no alchemical items, no armor). Roll Strength + Crafting and make a number of Supply checks for materials based on the item‘s size (one for small, two for medium). You have to have enough units of materials of the appropriate Quality for the amount of Supply checks you have to make (one unit for small items, at least d4 units for medium items).<br/>On a success, you create a quick-and-dirty version of that item. It is fragile, unsellable, has d4 Durability, and is automatically destroyed after a long duration.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>When using Quick Construction, you can also create large items, such as a cart, a row of palisades, or a very long climbing rope. When doing so, roll vs. hard Difficulty (10) and make three Supply checks for materials. You also need to have at least d6 units of materials for large items.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When using Quick Construction, you can also create quick-and-dirty versions of Quality 3 items with materials of high-enough Quality. This includes all sorts of mechanical contraptions, such as a ballista, water wheel, or a simple crane.
**Commander** | Education | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>During an ally’s turn within medium distance that can see and hear you, you can use your Quick Action to guide them strategically and grant them one of the following effects:<br/>- +1 Movement this turn.<br/>- +1 boon on the next roll.<br/>You can’t target yourself with this ability.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>When you target an ally with your Commander ability, they can also choose one of the following effects instead:<br/>- Add your Education to the damage of one attack.<br/>- Regain 2 x your Education as HP.<br/><br/>(Rank 3) When you target an ally with your Commander ability, they can choose two of the effects instead, but not twice the same.
**Diplomat** | Education | (<strong>Rank 1)</strong> When you roll Education for behaviours, values, taboos, or etiquette of another culture or group of intelligent creatures, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><strong></strong><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>You are able to utilize your knowledge about the values and taboos of a culture or other group of intelligent creatures to gain an advantage when interacting with it’s members. You gain the following abilities:<br/>- During a social situation with members of that group, you can roll Spirit/Mind + Education vs. Resist to gain insights into their culture. On a success, you gain +1 boon on any further rolls to socially interact with them for the rest of the scene. On a failure, you suffer +1 bane for the rest of the scene instead from your wrong cultural assumptions.<br/>- During combat, you can use the Demoralize or Distract Action by rolling Spirit/Mind + Education. When you do so, you can target all intelligent creatures of the same culture or group at the same time.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you roll Education for behaviours, values, taboos, or etiquette of another culture or group of intelligent creatures, you gain +1 boon on the roll.
**Eloquent Talker** | Education | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You persuade with logical arguments and technical terms during conversation. When you would have to roll Influence in a social situation with another creature speaking the same language as you, you can use Education instead. This only works if your target speaks the same language as you.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>When you roll Education during a social situation to persuade, deceive, or otherwise influence another creature speaking the same language as you, you can choose to re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You can roll Mind + Education vs. Resist during a social situation against a non-hostile creature speaking the same language as you. On a success, the target is charmed by you for the rest of the scene and considers you a well-informed and trustworthy person. If they are still charmed by the end of the scene, they will keep their good opinion of you for the time being.
**General Education** | Education | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>When you roll for any expert skill you haven’t learned using Mind, you don’t suffer +1 bane for it from it being an untrained skill for you.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you roll for any expert skill using Mind, you can choose to add your Education instead of the other expert skill once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you roll Mind + Education, you gain +1 boon on the roll.
**Linguist** | Education | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You learn one new common language.<br/>- You are able to communicate simple ideas with other intelligent creatures you don’t share a language with by rolling Mind + Education. The GM decides on the Difficulty of your communication attempt.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You learn one new common or exotic language.<br/>- You are able to decipher the meaning of any written symbols, even if you don’t know the language, by rolling Mind + Education as an Exploration activity. The GM decides on the Difficulty of your deciphering attempt and how literally you can translate it. You can’t use this ability to decipher symbols with no relation whatsoever to any common or exotic languages, such as symbols with otherworldly origin.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You learn one new common or exotic language.<br/>- When you roll Education for understanding or communicating while not knowing the language written or spoken, you gain +1 boon on the roll.
**Tactician** | Education | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> During a delving turn (some minutes), you can scheme a plan about the enemies you intend to fight or the location where your planned combat scene will take place. Once that scene begins, roll Mind + Education vs. the highest Resist among your enemies.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> You and your allies can choose to re-roll your Initiative tests.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Same as a weak success and each of you gains +1 boon on the first roll during that scene.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> Same as a strong success and the first roll any enemy makes against any of you suffers +1 bane.<br/><strong></strong><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>When you roll Mind + Education at the beginning of a combat scene for your Tactician ability, you gain +1 boon on the roll.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you roll Mind + Education at the beginning of a combat scene for your Tactician ability, each of you and your allies can also use one of the following abilities once during that scene on their own turn (allies use your Education for these abilities):<br/>- Add your Education to the damage of one attack.<br/>- Regain 2 x your Education as HP.
**Art of Fighting** | Fighting | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>You learn two more Combat Arts for any melee weapons.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>You learn two more Combat Arts for any melee weapons.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>You gain the following abilities:<br/><strong></strong>- Whenever you can learn new Combat Arts for any melee weapons, you can now choose Supreme Combat Arts instead. <br/>- You learn two more Combat Arts or Supreme Combat Arts for any melee weapons.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 4) </strong>You learn two more Combat Arts or Supreme Combat Arts for any melee weapons.
**Axe Mastery** | Fighting | (<strong>Rank 1)</strong> On a hit with an axe, you can use your Quick Action to use the Disarm Action against the target immediately after the attack.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> On a strong or critical hit with an axe against a target in light or no armor, inflict bleeding equal to your weapon damage for a short duration.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> On a strong or critical hit with an axe, you can use your Quick Action to rend the target‘s armor or shield (your choice if both are present). The target rolls a Durability check for the item. On a failure, the item gets damaged or destroyed if already damaged.
**Blade Mastery** | Fighting | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When attacking with a blade with either the pierce or slash property, you can choose to replace that property with the other one (slash instead of pierce or pierce instead of slash). When doing so, your weapon damage is reduced by 1 for this attack.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- On a strong or critical hit with a blade with the pierce property, ignore 1/2 of your target‘s AV.<br/>- On a strong or critical hit with a blade with the slash property, your target suffers marked (2).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When attacking with a blade weapon, you can choose to gain +1 boon on the roll once per turn.
**Defensive Dueling** | Fighting | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>While you only wield a single non-heavy melee weapon and no shield, you gain +1 Parry (ability bonus).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> While you only wield a single non-heavy melee weapon, you can use your Quick Action when being attacked against your Parry or Dodge to add your Fighting to that Defense against this attack only.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> While you only wield a single non-heavy melee weapon and no shield and you successfully parry a melee attack against you, the attacker is briefly marked (equal to your Fighting). You can use this ability once between your turns.
**Disciplined Fighter** | Fighting | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>You can choose to re-roll any attack roll with a melee weapon once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You can use your Combat Arts for melee weapons two times per scene each, but each individual Combat Art not two turns in a row.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)  </strong>When you hit with a melee weapon, you can choose to use your Quick Action to make another attack against any target but suffer +1 bane on the roll.
**Dual Wielder** | Fighting | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>You suffer no banes for attacking with two light melee weapons.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- While wielding two melee weapons, you gain +1 Parry (ability bonus).<br/>- You can also use any non-heavy melee weapons for dual-wielding, but suffer +1 bane on attacks with them if they aren’t light.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When attacking with two melee weapons, you can roll another attack with one of the weapons but you suffer +1 bane on it.
**Heavy Weapon Mastery** | Fighting | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> Using the Brutal Strike Combat Art with a heavy melee weapon doesn't impose +1 bane on your attack.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>When you hit with a heavy melee weapon and the attack‘s damage reduces the target to 0 HP, you can make another attack against a different target. On a hit with this attack, subtract your weapon damage once from the total damage. You can use this ability once per turn.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3)</strong> When you skip all Movement this turn (before and after the attack), on a hit with a heavy melee weapon, you can add +1/2 Strength to the attacks damage once per turn.
**Mace Mastery** | Fighting | (<strong>Rank 1)</strong> When you attack with a mace and don‘t blunder (even on a normal failure), you always at least deal damage equal to your weapon damage (ignoring AV) to the target. This applies even if the target‘s AV or a resistance would reduce the damage to a lower value. The only exception is the enemy being fully immune to your attack.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> On a strong or critical hit with a mace, your target is briefly dazed.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> On a hit with a mace, you can use your Quick Action to ignore the target‘s AV completely.
**Martial Artist** | Fighting | (<strong>Rank 1)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You don’t suffer +1 bane when attacking with improvised weapons.<br/>- You can use unarmed attacks, any non-heavy weapon, and improvised weapons as if it were agile.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You also gain the following abilities:<br/>- You ignore the fragile property of improvised weapons and can use Combat Arts with them as if they were brawling weapons.<br/>- When a ranged weapon attack misses you, you can use your Quick Action to make an Opportunity Attack against the attacker using the weapon or piece of ammunition they used in their attack against you. On a hit, treat this as a normal weapon attack with the attacker‘s weapon.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>You also gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you attack with an improvised weapon, add your Fighting to the damage (ability bonus).<br/>- When you attack with an agile weapon, you can choose to suffer +1 bane on the roll. When you do so and hit, you hit an additional time with the same weapon against the same target (treat this extra hit as a weak success).
**Polearm Mastery** | Fighting | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>While you wield a polearm and an enemy moves into your weapon’s reach, you can use a Quick Action for an Opportunity Attack against them.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>While you wield a polearm, you also gain the following abilities:<br/>- You don‘t suffer +1 bane from attacking with a reach polearm in melee range.- When you are pushed, reduce the distance by one step (being pushed close instead doesn’t push you at all).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>While you wield a polearm, you also gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you use the Charge Combat Art, add +1/2 Strength to the damage.<br/>- You are immune to being knocked prone or getting pushed by other creatures.
**Protective Stance** | Fighting | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>While you wield a shield and you use Protect Ally, the attacking enemy suffers +1 bane on their attack against you.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> While you wield a shield, you can use Protect Ally once between your turns without using your Quick Action.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> While you wield a shield and you use Protect Ally, you have resistance against the damage you take from the attack.
**Pugilist** | Fighting | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- Your unarmed attacks also count as brawling weapons that deal 2 weapon damage and have the crush and light properties.<br/>- While you wield no weapons other than brawling weapons, you gain +1 Parry (ability bonus).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- Unarmed attacks deal 3 weapon damage instead. <br/>- When you hit an enemy with a brawling weapon, you can use Distract against them as a Quick Action. You gain +1 boon on this roll.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- Unarmed attacks deal 4 weapon damage instead. <br/>- When you have hit an enemy with a brawling weapon, you regain your Fortitude as HP.
**Riposte** | Fighting | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>When an enemy misses their melee attack against your Parry and while you wield a non-heavy melee weapon, you can use a Quick Action to roll an Opportunity Attack against that enemy.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you hit an enemy with an Opportunity Attack, their Movement is reduced to 0 for the rest of their turn.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you use your Riposte ability to make an Opportunity Attack and you hit, the enemy is briefly dazed.
**Shield Mastery** | Fighting | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When an enemy hits you with a melee attack while you wield a shield, you can use a Quick Action to reduce the SL of their attack by one step (min. failure). Immediately after the attack, roll a Durability check for your shield.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> Reduce the rigid property of shields you wield by 1. When you make a melee attack with any weapon you are holding, you can choose to use your shield’s Combat Arts with that weapon attack.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>When you use your Shield Mastery ability and have to make a Durability check of your shield, make the check twice and take the higher result.
**Adrenaline Rush** | Fortitude | <em>something with taking damage to gain benefits.</em>
**Battle Rage** | Fortitude | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>While you wear no heavy armor, you can enter a battle rage on your turn. While enraged, you gain the following effects:<br/>- You gain +1 boon on all non-attack Strength rolls.<br/>- You can spend 2 HP during a melee attack to add +2 to the damage.<br/>- You suffer +1 bane on all Mind rolls and can’t cast or concentrate on spells.<br/><br/>When the scene ends or you fall unconscious, you automatically stop being enraged. When this happens, roll Strength + Fortitude. On a failure, you suffer one Fatigue.<br/><br/>(<strong>Rank 2) </strong>While enraged, you also gain the following effects:<br/>- When entering a battle rage, gain 10 temporary HP.<br/>- You gain +1 Resist (ability bonus).<br/>- You can spend 2 HP during a melee attack to add +4 to the damage instead.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> While enraged, you also gain the following effects:<br/>- When taking non-psychic damage, you can use your Quick Action to half that damage (after subtracting AV).<br/>- You can spend 2 HP during a melee attack to add +6 to the damage instead.
**Body of Bronze** | Fortitude | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>+2 HP. While you wear no armor, add 1 + your Fortitude to your AV (armor bonus).<br/><br/>(<strong>Rank 2) </strong>+2 HP. While you wear no armor, you are immune to being dazed or stunned.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> +2 HP. While you wear no armor, you have resistance against physical damage.
**Drunken Technique** | Fortitude | (<strong>Rank 1)</strong> While intoxicated, you can enter a drunken style stance. While in this stance, you gain the following effects:<br/>- When an enemy misses you with a melee attack, you can spend a Quick Action to redirect the attack against another creature in melee range. The attack automatically hits as a weak success.<br/>- While you are prone, you can stand up on your turn without spending Movement.<br/><br/>(<strong>Rank 2)</strong> While in this stance, you also gain the following effects:<br/>- You gain +1 Dodge (ability bonus).<br/>- You can Evade any melee attack from an enemy without using a Quick Action.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> While in tthis stance, you also gain the following effects:<br/>- You gain +1 Resist (ability bonus).<br/>- You ignore the negative effects from being poisoned.<br/>- Whenever an enemy misses you with a melee attack, you can choose to inflict marked (equal to your Fortitude) on them. You can only use this ability once between your turns.
**Explorer‘s Tenacity** | Fortitude | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> Gain +2 HP. When you roll Fortitude during travel to withstand the elements, the climate, or other environmental hazards, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>Gain +2 HP. You gain the following abilities:<br/>- During a night’s rest or bad night, you lose double the normal amount of Fatigue.<br/>- When you suffer an Injury, you can choose to suffer one Fatigue instead once per day.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> Gain +2 HP. You gain the following abilities:<br/>- During a bad night, you still can roll a hard Strength + Fortitude test to heal one previously treated Injury.<br/>- When you have to make a Supply check for rations during travel, roll twice and take the higher result. When you would automatically lose units of provisions, you can make a Supply check for it instead.
**Hard to Kill** | Fortitude | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> +2 HP. When you suffer a Wound or start dying and have to roll 1d4 in either situation, roll twice and choose any one of the results.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> +2 HP. When you would suffer one Wound, you can choose to ignore it once per day.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> +2 HP. When you use your Hard to Kill ability to ignore a Wound, you immediately regain your Strength as HP.
**Heavy Armor Mastery** | Fortitude | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>Reduce the rigid property of heavy armor you wear by 1.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> While wearing heavy armor and when you take damage, you can use a Quick Action to double the AV bonus of your worn armor against that attack once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You can use your Heavy Armor Mastery ability without spending a Quick Action but still only once per scene.
**Juggernaut** | Fortitude | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>While in melee range with multiple enemies, you gain +1 AV for every two of them (ability bonus). You can gain up to 1 + Fortitude as AV from this ability.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>When you use the Cleave Combat Art, you can target any number of enemies in your weapon's reach. Also, you don't subtract your weapon damage from your total damage by the effect of Cleave. <br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>Any of your melee attacks against a single enemy also inflicts damage against a second enemy in your weapon's reach, provided your attack roll would also hit them. Subtract your weapon damage once from the total damage against that second enemy. Any other effects of your attack also affect the second enemy.  
**Second Wind** | Fortitude | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>Gain +2 HP. You can use your Quick Action on your turn to regain 1/2 Strength + Fortitude as HP once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> Gain +2 HP. When you use your Second Wind ability, you regain Strength + 2 x Fortitude as HP instead.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> Gain +2 HP. You can use your Second Wind ability twice per scene, but still only once per turn.
**Strong Mind** | Fortitude | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you have to roll Spirit + Fortitude to concentrate on a spell or withstand an effect that attempts to frighten you, break your morale, charm you, or otherwise influence your mind, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> While you are under the influence of an effect that frightens you, charms you, or otherwise influences your mind, you can choose to immediately end the effect once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain resistance against psychic damage.
**Tough Stomach** | Fortitude | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>Gain +2 HP. When you have to roll Fortitude to withstand poison, intoxication, or illnesses, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> Gain +2 HP. When you are suffering the poisoned, frightened, or dazed condition, you can use a Quick Action to end it immediately once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>Gain +2 HP. You can use your Tough Stomach ability to immediately end a condition affecting you once between your turns instead.
**Born Haggler** | Influence | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When selling an item, you receive 60% of it’s cost instead of 50%.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>When searching for rare items during downtime, you can re-roll the test once per activity.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When selling an item, you receive 75% of it’s cost instead of 50%.
**Fast Talking** | Influence | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>When you fail an Influence roll in any social situation, you can choose to re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You can also use your Fast Talking ability to assist an ally in conversation. When doing so, they can add your Influence instead of their own to a roll.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> Immediately before combat begins and if you and your enemies see, hear, and understand each other, you can attempt to verbally confuse them.<br/>Roll Mind + Influence vs. Resist against all enemies hearing and understanding you. On a success, their Initiative is reduced by one category and they are briefly dazed.
**Inspire Ally** | Influence | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>You can use your Quick Action to inspire an ally that can see and hear you within medium range. When you do so, they gain +1 boon on one test they are about to roll. If it is a successful attack roll, they also add your Influence to the damage.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>You can choose to use Inspire Ally without using your Quick Action once per scene. You can still use the ability only once per roll.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You can also use Inspire Ally on yourself.<br/>- Whenever you use Inspire Ally, the target also regains your Influence as HP.
**Insult to Injury** | Influence | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>After you hit an enemy with an attack, you can use a Quick Action to use Distract with +1 boon against them.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> While an enemy is distracted by you, you or your allies add your Influence to the damage against them. When anyone but you deals damage to them, the distract condition still ends early.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When an enemy that is distracted by you would lose the condition because they took damage from another creature than you, you can use a Quick Action to immediately use Distract against them again to attempt to continue the distraction.
**Leading Presence** | Influence | (<strong>Rank 1)</strong> While you can see and hear each other, allies in short distance of you gain the following effects:<br/>- You gain +1 boon on your Initiative roll.<br/>- You gain +1 boon on Spirit rolls against being frightened or losing morale.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> While you can see and hear each other, allies in short distance of you gain the following effects:<br/>- You gain +1 Resist (ability bonus).<br/>- You deal +2 damage with any attack.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You also gain the effects of your Leading Presence ability and it extends to all allies in long distance of you.
**Performer** | Influence | <em>Excel at entertaining and swaying crowds</em>
**Presence of Conquest** | Influence | High level talent working like conquerers haki from one piece. Activate aura which potentially stuns all enemies around you.
**Empath** | Insight | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you roll Insight about the emotional state, personality, or life circumstances of another intelligent creature, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> You can use your Quick Action during your turn to roll Spirit + Insight vs. Resist against a creature you can see.<br/>On a success, you use your insights into the creature’s emotional state, personality, or life circumstances to predict their behaviour. You briefly gain +1 boon on any rolls targeting them and they suffer +1 bane on any roll targeting you. On a success, you can also roll for this ability again on your following turns without using your Quick Action. On a failure, the target is immune against this ability for the rest of the scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you roll Insight about the emotional state, personality, or life circumstances of another intelligent creature, you gain +1 boon on the roll.
**Foresight** | Insight | High level talent for supernatural insight leaning into instinctively predicting the future
**Intuitive Appraisal** | Insight | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>After spending a delving turn (some minutes) with an object, you can estimate its Quality and material worth in coin (not including magical properties). <br/><strong></strong><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>You can use your Quick Action to appraise the state of a humanoid’s equipment or a non-humanoid’s natural body structure that you can see and gain information about how to defeat them efficiently.<br/>Roll Spirit/Mind + Insight vs. a Difficulty determined by the target’s Tier (Tier 0: TN 4, Tier 1: TN 6, Tier 2: TN 8, Tier 3: TN 10, Tier 4: TN 12, Tier 5: TN 14, Tier 6: TN 16). <br/>On a success, you gain +1 boon on your next attack against them and ignore 1/2 AV on a hit. You can succeed on this ability only once per creature.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you estimate an item’s Quality and worth, you also determine if the item is magical, it’s general magical nature (offensive, protective, enhancing, summoning, etc.) and can deduce the total worth in coin including magical properties.<br/>- When you successfully use your Quick Action for Intuitive Appraisal against a creature during combat, their equipment or sellable body parts aren’t as damaged after defeating them, as they normally would be.<br/>In the case of equipment, it isn’t damaged after the fight. In the case of valuable body parts, you or your allies gain +1 boon on the roll to harvest them.
**Piercing Look** | Insight | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you roll Insight to know if a creature is lying, how they will act, or why they act how they do, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> As a Quick Action on your turn, you can focus your attention on one creature you can see in long range. Roll Spirit + Insight vs. Resist. On a success, your rolls against the creature gain +1 boon and any rolls the creature makes against you suffer +1 bane. This effect lasts for a short duration. You can succeed on this ability once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you use your Piercing Look ability to focus your attention on one creature you can see and the target dies or falls unconscious, you can use your ability again on your next turn against another target.
**Sense of Deduction** | Insight | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When you roll Insight to investigate a chain of events, the responsible entity of an event, the time an event took place, or who might know more about an event, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><strong></strong><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>While investigating a chain of events, the responsible entity of an event, the time an event took place, or who might know more about an event, you can choose to make an assessment about that topic. The GM will tell you if your assessment is generally true or false without any more nuance. You can use this ability once per scene.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3)</strong> When you use your Sense of Deduction ability to make an assessment, you can re-use this ability multiple times per scene until you make a false assessment.
**Channel Superstition** | Lore | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you use the Demoralize Action and roll a strong or critical success, the target is frightened of you for a short duration. They can roll Spirit + Fortitude at the end of each of their turns to end the effect early.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you use the Demoralize Action, you can target any number of enemies in short range.<br/><em><br/></em><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When a creature frightened of you rolls Spirit + Fortitude at the end of their turn to end the effect, increase the difficulty of the roll by one step.
**Consult the Myths** | Lore | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>When you roll Lore about a magical or supernatural place or creature, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><strong></strong><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you roll Lore about a magical or supernatural place or creature, you gain +1 boon on the roll.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You can use your Action or Quick Action during your turn to roll Spirit + Lore vs. Resist against a supernatural creature.<br/>On a success, you repeatedly chant an ancient phrase, that dazes them for a short duration. They can roll Spirit + Fortitude at the end of their turns to end the effect early. Any creature you failed this roll against or that succeeded on their roll against this ability is immune against it for the rest of the scene.
**Divine Scholar** | Lore | <em>You can’t choose this talent if you already learned Arcana or Mysticism and chose Devotion for your tradition. You also lose access to this talent’s benefits, if you ever do so later.<br/></em><br/><strong>(Rank 1)</strong> Through studies of different traditions and cults, you expand you horizon of mystical knowledge. Choose one mystic tradition and learn one spell of rank 0 from it.<br/>If you already learned Mysticism, you can now also choose spells from this tradition like any other of your traditions.<br/>If you weren’t able to cast spells before, use your Lore instead of Mysticism for calculating your Focus and any rolls made to cast the spell using the rules for mystic spells.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> +2 Focus. Choose one more tradition (or the same) and learn one spell of rank 1 or lower from it.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3)</strong> +2 Focus. Choose one more tradition (or one of the same) and learn one spell of rank 2 or lower from it.
**Identify Artifact** | Lore | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You can sense if an item you hold has magical properties as a Delving activity.<br/>- After spending an Exploration turn with an object, roll Spirit + Lore vs. 5 + the item’s Quality (the GM doesn’t have to tell the Difficulty to the player, only the results SL of the roll) to identify its magical properties.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> The GM tells you the general nature of the item‘s magical properties, such as dealing damage, something elemental, a spell effect, or something else.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> The GM tells you one specific magical effect of the item.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> The GM tells you everything about the magical effects of the item, even if it was cursed.<br/>You can use this ability once per item. If you fail, you need to consult other experts.<br/><strong></strong><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You can sense if an item you hold has magical properties using an Action instead.<br/>- You can use your Identify Artifact ability as a Delving turn instead.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You automatically sense if any object or structure has magical properties within close range around you.<br/>- You can sense the general nature of an item‘s magical properties you are holding using an Action.<br/>- When you use your Identify Artifact ability and succeed, the GM tells you everything about the magical effects of the item, even if it was cursed. Even on a failure, you still find out one specific magical effect of the item.
**Mage Hunter** | Lore | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When an enemy has to roll for Spell Concentration from damage you have dealt to them, they suffer +1 bane on the roll.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2) </strong>When an enemy in your melee range is casting a spell, you can use a Quick Action to make an Opportunity Attack against them.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3) </strong>When an enemy targets you with a spell, you can use a Quick Action to add your Lore to your Defenses.
**Magical Sense** | Lore | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> Your senses are attuned to the presence of magic. As a Quick Action, you can roll Spirit + Lore to detect whether any magical effects (traps, wards, lingering magic, …), creatures (spellcasters, magical beasts, extraplanar creatures, …), or items are present within your close range. On a success, you sense the rough position, presence (faint, moderate, strong, overwhelming) and general type (arcane or mystical) of each source of magic that is not hidden behind solid walls or other obstructions.<br/>This ability lasts briefly or for a short duration if you use your Spell Concentration on it.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>You gain the following abilities:<br/><strong></strong>- Your Magical Sense ability extends to short range.<br/>- When you use your Magical Sense ability, you can attempt to focus your senses on one creature in range with a magical presence. Roll Spirit + Lore vs. their Resist. On a success, pick once for each SL (one for weak, two for strong, three for critical): Magical Ability, Resistance, Weakness, Immunity (you can choose the same type multiple times). If you chose something the target doesn’t have, choose again. You learn about one property of the chosen type for each pick (GM’s choice).<br/>You can use this ability once per individual creature.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/><strong></strong>- Your Magical Sense ability extends to medium range.<br/>- While you use your Magical Sense ability, you gain +1 Resist and +1 boon on any Spirit rolls that target one or more of the magical sources.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 4)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/><strong></strong>- Your Magical Sense ability extends to long range.<br/>- ???
**Armor of the Faithful** | Mysticism | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>While you wear no armor, add 1 + your Mysticism to your AV (armor bonus).<br/><br/>(<strong>Rank 2)</strong> While you wear no armor, you can roll Spirit + Mysticism for weapon attacks.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> While you wear no armor, you are immune to being feared or confused.
**Communal Practices** | Mysticism | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you cast a spell that affects multiple targets, you can exclude any number of targets from the spell’s effect.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>When you cast a singular mystic spell that targets a single creature, you can choose a second target to also be affected once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you use your Communal Practices Rank 2 ability with a singular mystic spell, you can choose up to three additional targets instead.
**Divine Favor** | Mysticism | you can pray to your god or other spiritual patron to bestow blessings on you and your allies. you gain a number of Favor equal to your Mysticism per day to spend on such blessings.
**Divine Rites** | Mysticism | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> During a short break, you can officiate a divine rite to commune with the spiritual energies of your tradition to regain half your max. Focus. You can use this ability a number of times per day equal to your Mysticism.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you roll a critical success on any mystic spell of rank 1 or higher, you only spend half of its Focus cost (min. 1).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> During a short break and if you have less Focus remaining than half your max. Focus, you regain Focus up to half your max. Focus. If you also use your Divine Rites ability during this short break, you instead regain all of your Focus.
**Divine Sense** | Mysticism | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>As an Action, you can focus your senses on supernatural beings around you. You briefly know the location of any spirit or undead creature within medium range unless they are behind total cover. You also know the creatures‘ types and if they are generally of the same, lower, or higher level as you (you don’t sense specific levels) but nothing more about their identities. You also sense the supernatural aura of any hallowed or cursed object or place within range.<br/>You can use this ability a number of times per day equal to 1/2 your Spirit.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>While you are conscious, you are immune against being charmed, frightened, or poisoned.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> While you are conscious, your allies in short range of you are also immune against being charmed, frightened, or poisoned.
**Elemental Adept** | Mysticism | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you hit with a mystic spell that deals damage, you can choose to ignore any resistances against it‘s damage type once between turns.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you use your Elemental Adept ability, you also treat damage immunities against your spell‘s damage type as resistances instead.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you use your Elemental Adept ability, you can choose to instead remove all of the target‘s resistances and reduce their damage immunities to resistances for a short duration. You can choose this option only once per scene.
**Master of Principles** | Mysticism | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When you cast a mystic rank 0 spell, you can choose to re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you hit with a mystic rank 0 spell that deals damage, add your Mysticism to the damage (ability bonus).<br/>- Instead of attacking for an Opportunity Attack, you can choose to cast a mystic rank 0 spell against the target.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>When you cast a mystic rank 0 spell on your turn, you can use a Quick Action to cast the same spell again against any target but suffer +1 bane on the roll.
**Mystic Champion** | Mysticism | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>You can infuse one of your spells into a weapon attack. Choose any of your mystic rank 0 non-ritual spells that target the Defense of one or more enemies within your weapon‘s range.<br/>Roll your normal weapon attack. Treat the roll as an attack and as casting the chosen spell. With this attack, you can’t use any other abilities or effects that apply to casting a spell.<br/>On a hit, apply the spell‘s effects according to the SL of your attack, in addition to your normal weapon attack. You add its spell damage (without the spell’s base damage) to your attack’s damage and the attack’s damage type becomes that of the spell. Also, spend the spell‘s Focus cost, but increase it by 2.<br/><strong></strong><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>You can also use mystic rank 1 non-ritual spells that target the Defense of one or more enemies within your weapon‘s range with your Spellblade ability.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>You can also use mystic rank 2 non-ritual spells that target the Defense of one or more enemies within your weapon‘s range with your Spellblade ability.
**Mystical Spell Knowledge** | Mysticism | You can take higher ranks for this talent without having taken it’s lower ranks provided your Mysticism also has the required rank.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 1)</strong> +2 Focus. Learn two rank 0 or 1 spells for any of your traditions. You can choose this Talent multiple times.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>+2 Focus. Learn two rank 2 or lower spells for any of your traditions. You can choose this Talent multiple times.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> +2 Focus. Learn two rank 3 or lower spells for any of your traditions. You can choose this Talent multiple times.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 4)</strong> +2 Focus. Learn two rank 4 or lower spells for any of your traditions. You can choose this Talent multiple times.
**Pact of Devotion** | Mysticism | <em>Requires you to have picked Devotion when you learned Mysticism.<br/><br/></em><strong>(Rank 1) </strong>You swear a divine oath to your god or spirit patron from which you gain your mystical magic.<strong> </strong>When choosing this talent, you must always uphold the tenents associate with your chosen mystic tradition (as described in the Magic section). Breaking your oath means losing access to the pact’s abilities and you must atone yourself to regain them (see the Magic section on details about breaking an oath). Choose one of the following pact types and gain it’s abilities:<br/><strong>Glory.</strong> When you cast a spell of your pact‘s tradition or attack with a weapon and you hadn’t used the same option during your last turn, you either deal +2 damage or recover 2 HP (choose one) with it. This ability can trigger multiple turns in a row, provided you switch between casting a spell and attacking with a weapon each turn.<br/><strong>Piety.</strong> You gain +2 Focus per Mysticism rank.<br/><strong>Protection.</strong> You gain +2 HP per Mysticism rank.<br/><strong>Vengeance.</strong> As a Quick Action, you can speak a vow of enmity against any creature within short distance. You gain +1 boon on attacks against that target for a short duration. You can use this ability once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain additional abilities based on your pact type:<br/><strong>Glory.</strong> When you use your pact’s Glory ability, your choice also affects your allies in close range. If you choose damage, they gain the same damage bonus on their next attack against your target. If you choose healing, they instantly recover the same amount of HP you do from this ability.<br/><strong>Piety.</strong> You can use your Quick Action to send out an aura of piety affecting you and allies within short range. Each creature affected briefly gains resistance against damage from spells. You can use this ability in reaction to a spell being cast.<br/><strong>Protection.</strong> Channeling your pact‘s magic, you can restore HP up to 5 x your Mysticism. Using an Action, you can restore any amount of HP to a creature you are touching, up to the total amount available for this ability. The total amount of HP available is reduced each time you use this ability until it is depleted.<br/>You can spend 5 HP from this ability to cure any poison or natural disease affecting the target.<br/>You can also spend 10 HP from this ability to instantly heal one Wound or Fatigue from a create. Each creature can only benefit from this option once per day.<br/>You regain the maximum amount of HP for this ability after a night‘s rest.<br/><strong>Vengeance.</strong> When you hit with a weapon, you can spend Focus up to your Mysticism. For each Focus spend this way, deal +2 damage (ability bonus). You can use this ability once per turn and up to a number of times equal to your Mysticism per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>You gain additional abilities based on your pact type:<br/><strong>Glory.</strong> You can use your Quick Action to grant one ally within short range a free Opportunity Attack against a valid target of your choice. They suffer +1 bane on this attack. You can also choose for them to either deal +2 damage or recover 2 HP with this attack.<br/><strong>Piety.</strong> When you cast a spell of your pact’s tradition, you can choose to empower it with a divine miracle. The spell gains the following effects:<br/>- Add the spell damage or spell healing an additional time to the total damage or healing respectively.<br/>- The spell’s range (max. extreme) and duration (max. long) is increased by one step.<br/>You can use this ability once per scene and up to a number of times equal to your Mysticism per day.<br/><strong>Protection.</strong> You can use your pact‘s ability to channel healing as a Quick Action on your turn instead. When you use it as an Action, you can choose any ally within medium range instead.<br/><strong>Vengeance.</strong> When you speak your vow of enmity and you hit your target with a strong or critical success, they are also briefly stunned. They can only suffer this condition this way once per scene. When the target of your vow dies or falls unconscious, you can use your Quick Action on the same or one of your following turns to repeat the vow of enmity against another creature within short range.
**Shape Changer** | Mysticism | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you cast a spell that transforms your physical form (for example, Beast Form), you gain the following effects:<br/>- You gain 5 temporary HP. These will be applied on top of any amount of temporary HP you potentially get from the spell’s effect.<br/>- Add +2 damage to melee attacks using natural weapons (ability bonus).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you cast a spell that changes your physical form, you also gain the following effects:<br/>- Add +2 AV to your natural armor (treat this as part of the armor bonus).<br/>- When you attack with one of your natural weapons on your turn, you can use your Quick Action to make another attack with a natural weapon but suffer +1 bane on the roll.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you cast a spell that changes your physical form, you gain the following effects:<br/>- You gain resistance against physical damage.<br/>- Your gain resistance against fire, frost, lightning, or blast damage (choose one when casting the spell). You can also choose to deal damage of the chosen type with your natural weapon attacks.
**Animal Companion** | Nature | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>You can control an animal companion of a Tier equal or lower to your Nature. When you have to roll any test for your animal companion while you can see and hear it, you can use your Nature instead of the required skill for the roll.<br/>Choose any type of animal and apply it’s traits to the base statistics. Use the rules in the Mounts &amp; Companions section for how to control your animal companion.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> Choose one:<br/>- You can instead control two animal companions that are both of a Tier equal to or lower to your Nature - 1. Choose the same or different animal traits for them.<br/>- Your animal companion can learn two Combat Arts, appropriate for its types of attacks (ignoring the normal types of weapons the Combat Arts can be used with). It can use these Combat Arts while under your control. The normal rules for how and when to use Combat Arts also apply to your companion.<br/><br/>(<strong>Rank 3) </strong>Choose one:<br/>- When you or one of your animal companions under your control hits a target, the other ones gain +1 boon on attacks against that same target during their turn this round.<br/>- Your animal companions add your Nature to their total damage (ability bonus).
**Beast Lore** | Nature | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>When you roll Nature to gain insights into an animal’s or other natural beast’s attitude, behaviors, or characteristics, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you roll Nature to gain insights into an animal’s or other natural beast’s attitude, behaviors, or characteristics, you gain +1 boon on the roll.<br/>- You can communicate simple ideas with an animal or other natural beast, that is not aggressive towards you, by rolling Spirit + Nature (the GM decides on the difficulty of your communication attempt). This can include asking them to do a task for you or gaining information about the creature‘s natural environment.<br/> <br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You can use your Action or Quick Action during your turn to roll Spirit + Nature vs. Resist against an animal or other natural beast.<br/>On a success, you charm them for a short duration. They can roll Mind + Insight at the end of their turns to end the effect early. The effect also ends early if they take damage from any source. Any creature you failed this roll against or that succeeded on their roll against this ability is immune against it for the rest of the scene.
**Expert Rider** | Nature | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you have to roll to calm or not fall from your mount, you gain +1 boon on the roll.<br/>- Melee attack while mounted against unmounted enemies gain +1 boon.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You impose +1 bane on any melee attack against your mount.<br/>- When you use the Charge Combat Art while mounted and hit your target, increase the SL of the attack by one step (max. critical success).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You automatically succeed on rolls to calm your mount. <br/>- Add your Nature to your mounts AV.
**Field Medic** | Nature | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you roll Spirit + Nature to save a creature from dying, gain +1 boon on the roll.<br/>- You can quickly attempt to treat a wounded creature during one delving turn. Make a Supply Check for materials and roll Spirit + Nature. On a success, one Injury the creature is suffering is treated.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you roll Spirit + Nature to save a creature from dying, add +1 to their die result regardless of the result of your roll.<br/>- When you roll a Supply Check for materials while treating Injuries, roll it twice and take the higher result.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you stop a creature from dying, they regain their consciousness and restore 2 x your Nature as HP.
**Herbalist** | Nature | <em>Create potent remedies</em>
**Knowledgeable Wanderer** | Nature | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> +2 HP. You don‘t suffer +1 bane on rolls during travel for taking on multiple roles.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> +2 HP. You gain +1 boon on your travel rolls to navigate. Treat your blunders for these rolls as normal failures.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> +2 HP. You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you succeed on any of your travel rolls, also mark one travel progress (TODO).
**Plant Lore** | Nature | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>When you roll Nature to gain information about a plant’s, herb’s, or plant creature’s behaviors, characteristics, or properties, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you roll Nature to gain information about a plant’s, herb’s, or plant creature’s behaviors, characteristics, or properties, you gain +1 boon on the roll.<br/>- When you forage materials during travel, you gain +1 unit of them.<br/> <br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> XXX
**Poison Maker** | Nature | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You can spend one exploration turn to turn natural ingredients into poison. Choose one of the following poisons:<br/>- Weapon Poison (weak)<br/>- …<br/>Make a Supply check for your materials and roll Mind + Nature. On a success, you gain the chosen poison. <br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> When making poison, you can also choose one of the following poisons:<br/>- Weapon Poison (decent)<br/>- …<br/>Make a Supply check for your materials and roll a hard Mind + Nature test. On a success, you gain the chosen poison.  <br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When making poison, you can also choose one of the following poisons:<br/>- Weapon Poison (strong)<br/>- …<br/>Make a Supply check for your materials and roll a very hard Mind + Nature test. On a success, you gain the chosen poison.  
**Blind Senses** | Perception | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> While you are blinded but not deafened, you gain the following abilities:<br/>- Your rolls requiring sight toward targets close to you only suffer +1 bane from you being blinded.<br/>- Attacks against you from creatures close to you don’t gain +1 boon from you being blinded.<br/>- You can use Quick Actions between your turns toward creatures you can‘t see in close range.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You can use your Action or Quick Action on your turn to attempt to sense all creatures around you, even if you can‘t see them. Roll Spirit + Perception vs. Dodge. If you succeed, you are aware of a creature‘s location and movement and are not considered blinded against them while they remain in short distance from you.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you use your Blind Senses ability, you extend your awareness to all creatures in medium distance.
**Danger Sense** | Perception | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you roll for Initiative, you can re-roll the test.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> When enemies attempt to surprise you at the start of combat or you are attacked by a trap, add your Perception to your Resist against the enemies’  surprise rolls.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- While you can see and hear each other, allies in short distance of you can use your Resist against enemies attempting to surprise them at the start of combat or when they are attacked by a trap.<br/>- After rolling for Initiative, you can choose to ignore results below 8, taking 8 as the result instead.
**Dungeon Delver** | Perception | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you encounter some kind of trap or other mechanical or magical mechanism, you can take a minute to roll Mind + Perception.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> You understand the basic effects of activating the mechanism (pit trap, wall blades, ground spikes, …). You gain +1 boon on rolls to avoid activating the mechanism.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> You have a more detailed understanding of how the mechanism works. You also gain +1 boon on rolls to disable it.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>You fully understand how the mechanism works and what its effects are. Allies close to you gain +1 boon to avoid the mechanism. You also gain resistance against damage from this mechanism‘s effects.<br/>You can use this ability once per mechanism.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2) </strong>When you roll dice as part of determining some kind of item gained from treasure, roll twice and pick either result.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you roll dice to determine the amount of coin you gain from treasure, roll an extra die and choose the highest results from among them, equal to the original amount of dice.
**Eagle Eye** | Perception | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You can use the Spot Action as a Quick Action on your turn.<br/>- When you roll Perception to see anything hidden, obscured, or invisible, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> Attacking a target behind cover at range doesn‘t impose +1 bane on your attack from their cover.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> Your Perception rolls don’t suffer banes from perceiving small details at far distances. You can make out any detail you would see at close range, even up to very far range.
**Identify Weakness** | Perception | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>You can use your Quick Action on your turn to identify a weak spot of a creature or object you can see in long range. Roll Spirit + Perception vs. Resist.<br/>On a success, add your Perception to the damage for your attacks against the target and ignore their resistances against your attack’s damage type (doesn’t affect immunities).<br/>This effect lasts for a short duration. You can succeed on the roll of this ability once per scene.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> When you use your Identify Weakness ability to focus your attention on one creature you can see and the target dies or falls unconscious, you can use your ability again on your next turn against another target.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3)</strong> When you hit the target of your Identify Weakness ability with an attack, you can choose to have them be vulnerable against your attack’s damage type, unless they have a resistance or immunity against it. After the attack, roll Spirit + Perception vs. Resist again. On a failure, your Identify Weakness ability ends.
**Assassination** | Stealth | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you hit an enemy that is unaware of you with an attack for the first time during a scene, treat the SL of your attack against them as one step higher (max. critical success).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you attack an enemy that hasn’t yet taken a turn during combat for the first time during a scene, you gain +1 boon on the attack. <br/>- Missing an attack from stealth doesn‘t reveal your position to the target that is unaware of you.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> When you hit an enemy that is unaware of you with an attack for the first time during that scene, add your Stealth to your weapon damage against them.
**Devious Tactics** | Stealth | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You can also use the Distract Action as a Quick Action on your turn. When doing so, you can choose any suitable object or creature to be the source of the distraction and not yourself.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you use the Distract Action, you can target any number of close enemies instead.<br/><em><br/></em><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You can use your Quick Action against a distracted creature to further exploit their distraction. When you do so, they are marked (equal to your Stealth).
**Hidden Strike** | Stealth | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>While you have no weapon drawn, you can attack with one light melee weapon you have hidden on your person as a Quick Action on your turn once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you attack with your Hidden Strike ability, you gain +1 boon on the attack.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>When you hit with your Hidden Strike ability, the enemy is briefly stunned.
**Leading the Way** | Stealth | (<strong>Rank 1) </strong>When you and your allies attempt to sneak or surprise your enemies, all allies that can see you within close range of you can use the result of your roll instead of their own.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> Your Leading the Way ability extends to allies who can see you within short distance of you.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>Your Leading the Way ability extends to all allies that can see you within medium distance of you.
**Roguish Wits** | Stealth | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you roll Stealth to convince somebody of a falsehood or make them doubt the truth of what they perceive, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>When you are targeted by another creature you can see and they roll against one of your Defenses, you can use your Quick Action to add your Stealth to that Defense against their roll.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> XXX
**Sleight of Hand** | Stealth | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you roll Stealth to pickpocket an item, palm an object, or plant a false item, you can re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> When you roll Agility + Stealth vs. Resist to pickpocket an item, palm an object, or plant a false item, the target doesn‘t notice your sleight of hand, even if you fail the roll. You can also use this against enemies in melee range during combat.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> XXX
**I Know A Guy** | Streetwise | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> During downtime in a settlement you have previously used the Carouse activity in, you can forgo using Buy Item, Sell Item, or Find Contact. Instead, roll Spirit + Streetwise. On a success, you know somebody related to what you are looking for but the results are more unpredictable.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Your contact holds a grudge against you from your last interaction. They can get you what you are looking for but have a major request in return.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Your contact can get you what you are looking for but with a small request in return.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> Your contact can get you what you are looking for without any additional requests in return.<br/>Can be used once between adventures.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> XXX<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> XXX
**Jack of All Trades** | Streetwise | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You can choose to add your Streetwise to any roll instead of another skill (except for magic skills) once per scene.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> After you have used your Jack of All Trades ability to replace a skill and succeeded on the roll, you can continue to add your Streetwise to rolls instead of that same skill for the rest of the scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> After you have used your Jack of All Trades ability to replace a skill and succeeded on the roll, you can use it again during the same scene for another skill.
**Swashbuckler** | Streetwise | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> Gain +2 HP. When you hit an enemy with a light melee weapon, this turn that enemy can’t use Quick Actions or other abilities outside of their own turn against you.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2) </strong>Gain +2 HP. If you hit a creature with a light melee weapon, you gain +1 boon on the next attack with a light melee weapon against them during the same turn.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> Gain +2 HP. After you attack a creature with a light melee weapon, you can choose to immediately spend 1 Movement without provoking Opportunity Attacks. You can use this ability once between your turns.
**Thug Tactics** | Streetwise | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>When you are in melee range with at least one ally and you outnumber the enemies you are in melee range with, gain +1 boon on attacks against them.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> Your allies that you are in melee range with also gain +1 boon against outnumbered enemies you are in melee range with.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3) </strong>Outnumbered enemies suffer +1 bane on attacks against you and allies you are in melee range with.
**Explorer of Nature** | Survival | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> Choose one of the following environments: Desert, Forest, Mountain, Plains, Sea, Swamp, or Tundra.<br/>When exploring or traveling in the chosen environment, and you roll Survival or Nature related to the environment or its inhabitants, you can choose to re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 2)</strong> Choose a second environment.<br/>You also gain the following abilities when exploring or traveling in one of your chosen environments:<br/>- If you are the navigator, reduce the amount of options you have to choose from a blunder or failure by one.<br/>- If you are the scout, reduce the Encounter Die by one step regardless of the outcome of your roll.<br/>- If you roll to gather supplies during exploration or travel and you succeed on the roll, you always gain one more unit of supply available (if multiple types of supply can be chosen, choose one).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> Choose a third environment. You also gain the following abilities when exploring or traveling in one of your chosen environments:<br/>- XXX
**Makeshift Artisan** | Survival | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You can take one exploration turn to craft a makeshift weapon, simple tool, or primitive ammo from natural materials you have available. Choose between any light weapon, piece of gear, or unit of ammo (arrows, bolts, or throwing stones) of Quality 1 or 2. Spend 1 use of materials and roll Agility + Survival. On a success, you create a Quality 1 version of your chosen weapon, gear, or ammo. The crafted item has the fragile property.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You can also craft Quality 1 versions of non-light weapons. When crafting a makeshift heavy weapon, spend 2 uses of materials instead.<br/>- On a hit with a makeshift weapon, you can choose to forcefully destroy it. When doing so, add +2 damage for each use the weapon had left (ability bonus).<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You can choose to only use one delving turn to craft a makeshift item. When doing so, roll a hard Agility + Survival test instead.<br/>- Your makeshift weapons increase their weapon damage by 1 (enhancement bonus).<br/>- You makeshift ammo deals +2 damage (enhancement bonus).
**Monster Hunter** | Survival | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You can use a Quick Action on your turn to focus your sight on one creature that is at least one size larger than you to analyze its movements and behaviors. Roll Spirit/Mind + Survival vs. Resist. On a success, add your Survival to the damage against them.<br/>This effect lasts a short duration or until you use it again against another larger creature. <br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> While you have a target with your Monster Hunter ability, you can Evade and Guard against them without spending a Quick Action.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3)</strong> While you have a target with your Monster Hunter ability and you hit them with an attack, you can choose to roll Spirit/Mind + Survival vs. Resist after the attack. On a success, they are briefly stunned. You can use this ability once per scene.
**Relentless Tracker** | Survival | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> When you roll Survival to follow tracks, identify them, or gain information from them, you can choose to re-roll the test once per scene.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> XXX<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3)</strong> XXX
**Trap Maker** | Survival | <strong>(Rank 1)</strong> You can use one exploration turn to lay a trap. Make a Supply check for your materials and roll Spirit + Survival. On a success, choose one of the following effects (or choose a fitting, individual effect):<br/>- Pit (a creature falls a short distance into the pit)<br/>- Falling Rocks (a creature takes 10 crush damage and falls prone)<br/>- Net (a creature is restrained by the net)<br/>You lay a trap with the chosen effect. It automatically activates once a creature comes into contact with it. Once activated, the target has to roll Agility + Athletics. On a failure, they suffer the trap‘s effect.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- You can also use your Trap Maker ability during a delving turn. When doing so, make the Supply check twice and take the lower result.<br/>- When a creature has to roll for one of your traps, the difficulty of their roll is hard.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 3)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When a creature suffers your trap’s effect, add 2 x your Survival to the damage.<br/>- When a creature has to roll for one of your traps, the difficulty of their roll is very hard. 
**Wilderness Expert** | Survival | <strong>(Rank 1) </strong>While carrying Cook‘s Utensils, you can create rations from the food found in the wilderness. During a night’s rest and if your group successfully gathered food for the day, you can make a Spirit + Survival roll. On a success, you create a number of units of rations up to your Survival, provided you have enough leftovers.<br/><strong><br/>(Rank 2)</strong> You gain the following abilities:<br/>- When you have to roll Survival to establish a camp, you gain +1 boon on the roll.<br/>- When you are attacked while resting, you can still roll Spirit + Perception to quickly wake up before the attack, but suffer +1 bane on the roll.<br/><br/><strong>(Rank 3)</strong> XXX
**Untitled** |  | 
