Name | Discipline | Rank | Focus | Target | Range | Properties | Effect
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---
**Flickering Flame** | Evocation | 0 | 0 | vs. Dodge | Medium |  | You create a small flame in your palm. It provides light at a close range. You can throw the flame as a projectile.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong><em> </em>Deals +2 fire damage. <br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Deals +4 fire damage and the target suffers burning (2) for a short duration.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> Deals +6 fire damage and the target suffers burning (4) for a short duration.
**Frost Snap** | Evocation | 0 | 0 | vs. Dodge | Medium |  | By snapping your fingers, you explosively chill the air around the target.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> You deal +2 frost damage. <br/><strong>Strong.</strong> You deal +4 frost damage and the target is briefly slowed.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> You deal +6 frost damage and the target is briefly dazed and slowed.
**Static Spark** | Evocation | 0 | 0 | vs. Dodge | Medium |  | You generate a small electric discharge from your fingertip against a target.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +2 lightning damage.<br/><strong>Strong. </strong>Deal +4 lightning damage to the target and you can deal +2 lightning damage to one other creature in melee range of the target.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>Deal +6 lightning damage to the target and you can deal +4 lightning damage to one other creature in melee range of the target.
**Elemental Ward** | Evocation | 1 | 2 | Moderate (8) | Self | concentrate, quick | You surround yourself in a ward that absorbs elemental energies affecting you. Cast this spell before taking damage or on your turn.<br/>On a success, you gain resistance against fire, frost, and lightning damage. This spell lasts for a short duration.<br/>
**Flame Burst** | Evocation | 1 | 2 | vs. Dodge | Close | blast (cone) | Holding your open hand out, a wide burst of fire erupts from it.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong><em> </em>Deals +2 fire damage to all targets. <br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Deals +4 fire damage to all targets.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> Deals +6 fire damage to all targets and each of them suffers burning (2) for a short duration.
**Flaming Weapon** | Evocation | 1 | 2 | Moderate (8) | Self | enchant (weapon), singular | Enchant your weapon with magical flames.<br/>On a success, the weapon emits bright light in melee range and dim light in close range of it and deals +2 fire damage. You can make a weapon attack as part of casting this spell.<br/>This spell lasts for a medium duration.<br/>
**Frozen Weapon** | Evocation | 1 | 2 | Moderate (8) | Self | enchant (weapon), singular | Enchant your weapon with magical frost.<br/>On a success, the weapon deals +2 frost damage. On a strong or critical hit, the target is briefly slowed. You can make a weapon attack as part of casting this spell.<br/>This spell lasts for a medium duration.<br/>
**Ice Shards** | Evocation | 1 | 2 | vs. Dodge | Medium |  | You form an icicle in your grasp. The icicle explodes on impact, sending out razor sharp shards around it.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +3 frost damage.<strong> </strong>The shards explode, dealing +0 frost damage to all creatures in melee range of the target (if the attack roll hits vs. their Dodge).<br/><strong>Strong. </strong>Deal +6 frost damage. The shards explode, dealing +2 frost damage to all creatures in melee range of the target (if the attack roll hits vs. their Dodge).<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>Deal +9 frost damage. The shards explode, dealing +4 frost damage to all creatures in melee range of the target (if the attack roll hits vs. their Dodge).
**Lightning Arc** | Evocation | 1 | 2 | vs. Dodge | Medium |  | Arcs of lightning spring forth from your fingertips, jumping from creature to creature.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +2 lightning damage up to three creatures close to each other.<br/><strong>Strong. </strong>Deal +4 lightning damage up to three creatures close to each other.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>Deal +6 lightning damage up to three creatures close to each other.
**Lightning Weapon** | Evocation | 1 | 2 | Moderate (8) | Self | enchant (weapon), singular | Enchant your weapon with magical frost.<br/>On a success, the weapon deals +2 lightning damage. On a strong or critical hit, the target is briefly faltering. You can make a weapon attack as part of casting this spell.<br/>This spell lasts for a medium duration.<br/>
**Scorching Beams** | Evocation | 1 | 2 | vs. Dodge | Medium |  | You form three flaming orbs hovering before you. From each orb, you can shoot a beam of scorching flame. You can choose the same or different targets and roll one attack for each beam.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong><em> </em>The beam deals +2 fire damage.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> The beam deals +4 fire damage.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> The beam deals +6 fire damage.
**Fireball** | Evocation | 2 | 4 | vs. Dodge | Long |  | You channel a violent sphere of flame, pulsing with energy. Then throw it towards the target location.<br/>This spell targets every creature in close range of the target location.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong><em> </em>Deals +4 fire damage to all targets. <br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Deals +8 fire damage to all targets and each of them suffers burning (4) for a short duration.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> Deals +12 fire damage to all targets and each of them suffers burning (6) for a short duration.
**Frost Wave** | Evocation | 2 | 4 | vs. Resist | Short | blast (cone) | You conjure a chilling wave of frost that emanates an icy blast in front of you.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +4 frost damage to each target.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Deal +8 frost damage to each target and they are briefly slowed.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> Deal +12 frost damage to each target and they are slowed for a short duration. They can roll Strength + Fortitude at the end of their turns to end the effect early.
**Ice Lance** | Evocation | 2 | 4 | Special | Medium |  | You form a long spear-like ice shard, hovering above your hand. You can choose to use the ice lance as a melee weapon, or throw it against a target within range.<br/><br/><strong>Weapon.</strong> You can immediately make a melee attack against a target in reach using the ice lance. The ice lance deals +5 frost weapon damage, has the fragile, pierce, reach, and versatile (+1) properties, and d6 Durability. You roll attacks with it using Mind + Arcana und use your spell base damage for it. The ice lance lasts for a short duration, or until destroyed.<br/><br/><strong>Throw.</strong> Roll vs. Dodge against a single target in range.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> You deal +6 frost damage.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> You deal +12 frost damage.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> You deal +18 frost damage.
**Lightning Strike** | Evocation | 2 | 4 | vs. Dodge | Medium | blast (line) | You summon a powerful strike of lightning that streaks forth in a straight line from you to a target point, electrifying every creature it passes.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +4 lightning damage to each target.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Deal +8 lightning damage to each target and they are briefly faltering.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> Deal +12 lightning damage to each target and they are briefly faltering.
**Black Flame Bolt** | Evocation | 3 | 6 | vs. Dodge | Long |  | You conjure an unnatural black flame which relentlessly consumes everything it touches.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +6 fire damage and the target suffers burning (2).<br/><strong>Strong. </strong>Deal +12 fire damage and the target suffers burning (4).<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>Deal +18 fire damage and the target suffers burning (6).<br/>The black fire ignores fire resistance and reduces immunity against fire damage to a resistance against it. Burning from black fire can‘t be put out by mundane means and only does, once the caster of it is unconscious or dead. Alternately it can be put out by magic that removes a magical effect to be stopped.<br/>
**Distracting Whispers** | Illusion | 0 | 0 | vs. Resist | Medium |  | You whisper faint, unintelligible voices into the target's mind, breaking their poise and distracting them.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +0 psychic damage (ignoring AV).<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Deal +2 psychic damage (ignoring AV) and the target is briefly distracted by the whispers.<strong> <br/>Critical. </strong>Deal +4 psychic damage (ignoring AV) and the target is distracted by the whispers for a short time. They can roll Spirit + Fortitude vs. your Resist at the end of their turns to end the effect early.
**Horrific Vision** | Illusion | 0 | 0 | vs. Resist | Medium |  | You conjure false visions into the target‘s mind, making them project horrific events of them or their loved ones.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +0 psychic damage (ignoring AV).<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Deal +2 psychic damage (ignoring AV) and the target is briefly frightened.<strong> <br/>Critical. </strong>Deal +4 psychic damage (ignoring AV) and the target is frightened for a short time. They can roll Spirit + Fortitude vs. your Resist at the end of their turns to end the effect early.
**Mirage** | Illusion | 0 | 0 | Moderate (8) | Medium | concentrate, illusory | You can create a stationary image of a creature or object. Choose a small or medium sized form for your mirage. On a success, your chosen mirage appears. It lasts a short duration or until you move out of range of it.
**Disguise Form** | Illusion | 1 | 2 | Moderate (8) | Self | concentrate, illusory | You transform your image through illusions, appearing as another similar sized creature.<br/>On a success, choose any humanoid form with the same size as yourself. You can also choose any style of clothing or other worn items as part of this spell.<br/>You assume your chosen form through illusion. Any parts that appear larger or smaller than your original form aren‘t solid and will be translucent when in contact with other solid matter.<br/>This spell lasts for a medium duration.<br/>
**False Enemy** | Illusion | 1 | 2 | vs. Resist | Medium | concentrate, illusory | Using an illusionary creature, you fool your target into believing they are attacked by the illusion. Choose a small or medium sized humanoid form for your false enemy. On a success, the target imagines the false enemy to be attacking them in melee.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +2 psychic damage (ignoring AV).<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Deal +4 psychic damage (ignoring AV) and the target is briefly distracted by the false enemy.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>Deal +6 psychic damage (ignoring AV) and the target is briefly distracted by the false enemy. The target’s roll to see through the false enemy is hard.<br/><br/>You can use your Action on your next turn to repeat the roll for this spell without spending additional Focus. On a success, apply the spells effects again. On a failure or if you choose not to use your Action to continue the spell, the spell ends and you can’t continue to cast it for free.<br/>
**Illusory Trap** | Illusion | 1 | 2 | vs. Resist | Medium | illusory | You make a creature believe that they triggered a trap.<br/>On a success, they believe they set of the trap and are pinned by it. Choose any plausible form for the illusory trap to take.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +2 psychic damage (ignoring AV).<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Deal +4 psychic damage (ignoring AV) and the target is grappled by the illusory trap.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>Deal +6 psychic damage (ignoring AV) and the target is restrained by the illusory trap.<br/>After the target believes it was pinned by the trap, the illusion lasts for a short duration or until they see through it.<br/>
**Phantom Selves** | Illusion | 1 | 2 | Moderate (8) | Self | concentrate, illusory, quick | You create illusionary duplicates of yourself, mimicking your actions to confuse enemies about your true location. Cast this spell on your turn.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> You create a second phantom version of you that stays directly at your side and mimics your movements.<br/><strong>Strong. </strong>You create two phantom selves instead.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>You create three phantom selves instead. <br/><br/>When an enemy tries to attack you and hasn’t seen through the phantom selves illusion, randomly determine if they hit you or one of your phantom selves. If they hit a phantom, it disappears.<br/>Otherwise the phantoms last for a short duration.<br/>
**Hallucinatory Assault** | Illusion | 2 | 4 | vs. Resist | Medium |  | Create an illusory swarm of creatures or projectiles that assail the senses of a creature, making them panic.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +4 psychic damage (ignoring AV).<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Deal +8 psychic damage (ignoring AV) and the target is briefly confused.<strong> <br/>Critical. </strong>Deal +12 psychic damage (ignoring AV) and the target is confused for a short time. They can roll Spirit + Fortitude vs. your Resist at the end of their turns to end the effect early.
**Illusionary Camouflage** | Illusion | 2 | 4 | Hard (10) | Medium | concentrate, illusory | Create a large scale illusion, blending into the environment by mimicking the surrounding scenery.<br/>Choose any inanimate object, structure, or environmental feature that encompasses up to a close three dimensional area.<br/>On a success, the illusion appears and lasts for a medium duration, even if you move out of range of it.<br/>
**Invisibility** | Illusion | 2 | 4 | Hard (10) | Self | concentrate, illusory, quick | You shroud yourself in illusions of your surroundings, hiding you from the sights of others. Cast this spell on your turn.<br/>On a success, you are invisible. While invisible, you are hidden from any creature, which hasn’t successfully rolled against this spells illusion, or has an innate ability to see through invisibility.<br/>This spell lasts for a short duration or until you attack or cast another spell.<br/>
**Waking Dream** | Illusion | 2 | 4 | vs. Resist | Medium | concentrate, illusory | You trap a creature in their dreams. The target has to be of a tier equal to or lower than your Arcana. If the creature is at full HP, you suffer +1 bane on the roll.<br/>On a success, the creature falls unconscious for a medium duration. If any creature uses an Action to shake them, they take any damage, or are otherwise disturbed, they can roll Spirit + Perception vs. your Resist to break free of the illusion.<br/>
**Arcane Glyph** | Conjuration | 0 | 0 | Moderate (8) | Touch | ritual (minutes), singular | Conjure a small arcane glyph that is almost invisible on a stationary object or surface you touch. On a success, choose one of the following effects:<br/><br/><strong>Explosion. </strong>Roll vs. Dodge for each creature close to the glyph. On a hit, each target takes +0 (weak) / +2 (strong) / +4 (critical) blast damage.<br/><br/><strong>Alarm.</strong> A loud continuous sound blasts from the glyph, hearable anywhere within a very long range of it.<br/><br/><strong>Spell Effect. </strong>Choose one of your other non-ritual spells targeting one or multiple creatures in no more than close range.<strong> </strong>Immediately spend the Focus required to cast the spell. Once the glyph activates, cast the chosen spell with random targets within range.<br/><br/>Also determine a condition for when the glyph is supposed to activate, such as somebody touching it, stepping on it, or moving directly past it. The condition has to be met in close range of the glyph.<br/>Once the condition is met, the glyph erupts with the chosen effect.<br/>
**Arcane Missiles** | Conjuration | 0 | 0 | Moderate (8) | Medium |  | Conjure one or multiple small projectiles or pure arcane energy and lunge them against a number of creatures.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> You fire one missile.<br/><strong>Strong. </strong>You fire two missiles.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>You fire three missiles.<br/>Choose any number of creatures in range as targets to divide the missiles between. Each missile automatically hits, counting as a weak success, and deals +2 blast damage.<br/>
**Extraplanar Pocket** | Conjuration | 0 | 0 | Moderate (8) | Touch | quick | Choose one item taking up 1 load or less and hold it out before you. Cast this spell on your turn.<br/>On a success, your hand reaches into an extraplanar pocket, either storing the item you are holding or withdrawing an item you stored beforehand from it during your turn.<br/><br/>You can only ever store items with a combined load of up to 2 + Arcana in the extraplanar pocket. When storing supply in it, you can‘t store more than a d12 (or 5 units) for any single type of supply in it.<br/><br/>Once you are unconcious, any stored item re-appears before you.<br/>
**Familiar Conjuring** | Conjuration | 1 | 2 | Moderate (8) | Touch | ritual (hours), singular | You set up a ritual to summon an arcane familiar from unknown places beyond this world. As part of casting this spell, you must also spend 100 coins in incense and other occult ingredients. Choose a tiny animal form for your familiar (e.g. cat, bird, spider, …).<br/>On a success, you summon your arcane familiar in the chosen form (treat the familiar as a companion for combat). The familiar has the following statistics:<br/><br/><strong>Arcane Familiar</strong> (<em>tiny extraplanar</em>)<br/><br/><strong>HP.</strong> 5 / <strong>AV.</strong> 0 / <strong>Attributes.</strong> d4 STR / d6 AGI / d4 SPI / d6 MND / <strong>Defenses.</strong> 6 Parry / 8 Dodge / 7 Resist / <strong>Skills.</strong> Cunning, Perception (equal to your Arcana)<br/><br/><strong>Attacks.<br/></strong>- <strong>Strike.</strong> 3 damage (2 base + 1 weapon).<br/><br/><strong>Abilities:</strong><br/>- <strong>Night Vision.</strong> This creature can see up to a close distance in dim light as in bright light. Sources of dim light let it see one range category further than normal.<br/>- <strong>Natural Movement.</strong> Depending on the form this creature takes, it can can climb or swim without treating it as difficult terrain, or can fly.<br/><br/>You have a psychic connection to your familiar, as long as the two of you are on the same sphere of existence. This connection manifests itself as an intuitive sharing of emotions. You can use this connection to tell your familiar what to do and where to go nonverbally. You can also spend your turn meditating to fully experience all senses of your familiar. While meditating this way, you are considered unconscious and are unaware of your own body‘s surroundings.<br/>Any creature capable of sensing magical auras will notice the extraplanar nature of your familiar. Most civilized folks will see this as unnatural and evil. The familiar remains until killed, but can be re-summoned with another ritual. You can choose a new form for your familiar each time you cast this spell.<br/>
**Hale of Blades** | Conjuration | 1 | 2 | Moderate (8) | Medium |  | You conjure a hail of energy-made blades hovering around you. You can send out the blades, whirling and striking at your targets.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +2 damage up to three creatures close to each other.<br/><strong>Strong. </strong>Deal +4 damage up to three creatures close to each other.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>Deal +6 damage up to three creatures close to each other.
**Infuse Item** | Conjuration | 1 | 2 | Moderate (8) | Touch | enchant (*), singular | You touch any medium or smaller item, temporarily infusing it with arcane energy.<br/>On a success, the item increases it’s Durability die by one step. If it is a weapon, it deals +1 weapon damage. If it is an armor, shield, or helmet, it grants +1 AV.<br/>These effects last for a long duration. This spell counts as an enchantment for a weapon, armor, shield, helmet, or other item depending on which type of item you infused.<br/>
**Arcane Barrage** | Conjuration | 2 | 4 | Hard (10) | Medium |  | Conjure a barrage of small projectiles or pure arcane energy and lunge them against a number of creatures.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> You fire three missile.<br/><strong>Strong. </strong>You fire four missiles.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>You fire five missiles.<br/>Choose any number of creatures in range as targets to divide the missiles between. Each missile automatically hits, counting as a weak success, and deals +2 blast damage.<br/>
**Arcane Barrier** | Conjuration | 2 | 4 | Hard (10) | Short | singular | You summon an arcane barrier of semi-translucent energy that provides cover and let’s nothing through. The barrier takes the dimensions of a rectangular door (2 meters x 1 meter) and can be oriented in any direction.<br/>On a success, you create the barrier within range in the desired orientation, as long as it touches some solid surface or object.<br/><br/>The barrier is immovable and lasts for a short duration or until destroyed. The barrier can be destroyed like any other object. It has 6 Parry and Dodge, 4 AV, and 20 HP.<br/>
**Arcane Circle** | Conjuration | 2 | 4 | Hard (10) | Melee | quick, singular | You summon a magical circle under your feet, depicting arcane sigils.<br/>On a success, you summon the arcane circle in your melee range. Any creature casting an arcane spell while standing on the circle gains +1 boon when casting or concentrating on an arcane spell and deals +2 damage per SL with any arcane spell.<br/>The arcane circle remains stationary at the position you cast it at for a medium duration, or until you cast another one at a different position.<br/>
**Eldritch Tendrils** | Conjuration | 2 | 4 | vs. Parry | Medium | concentrate | You create small fractures in reality at the target location, spewing dark, unnatural tendrils covered in acidic ichor, which furiously lash at creatures in their reach. Target all enemies in close range of the target location.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +3 acid damage to each target.<br/><strong>Strong. </strong>Deal +6 acid damage to each target and they are grappled by the tendrils. While grappled by them, the target takes 2 lasting acid damage.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>Deal +9 acid damage to each target and they are grappled and restrained by the tendrils. While grappled by them, the target takes 4 lasting acid damage.<br/>On each of your following turns, you can use your Quick Action to let the tendrils lash at all enemies in their reach again, but they stop grappling or restraining their previous target. Roll your spell attack again when doing so.<br/>Then tendril’s area is considered difficult terrain. The tendrils stay at the target location for a short duration.<br/>
**Phase Step** | Conjuration | 2 | 4 | Hard (10) | Short | quick | You step through the veil of the material sphere, quickly teleporting yourself to a viable location you can see in range.<br/>On a success, you re-appear at the target location without spending Movement.<br/>
**Detect Magic** | Telepathy | 0 | 0 | Moderate (8) | Short |  | You attune your vision to the lingering auras of magical influence.<br/>On a success, you detect any magical auras within range emanated by creatures, items, or other magical effects, such as illusions.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> You briefly know the general direction of each aura during the moment when this spell is cast.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Same as a weak success, and you keep track of all detected auras within range for a short duration.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> Same as a strong success, and you know magical nature, the discipline, or tradition of the detected auras.
**Mental Link** | Telepathy | 0 | 0 | vs. Resist | Medium | quick | You focus on the mind of another creature you can see within range. Cast this spell on your turn.<br/>On a failure, the target is aware of your attempt to pry their mind and you can‘t target them again with this spell for the rest of the scene.<br/>On a success, you can either send a brief message, thought, or mental image to the target. Alternatively you can get insight into their current surface thoughts and emotions.<br/>You automatically succeed when targeting a willing creature and they can return a brief message, thought, or mental image to you as a response.<br/>
**Mind Blast** | Telepathy | 0 | 0 | vs. Resist | Medium |  | You concentrate to overwhelm a creature‘s mind with mental energy.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +0 psychic damage (ignoring AV).<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Deal +2 psychic damage (ignoring AV) and the target is briefly dazed.<strong> <br/>Critical. </strong>Deal +4 psychic damage (ignoring AV) and the target is dazed for a short time. They can roll Spirit + Fortitude vs. your Resist at the end of their turns to end the effect early.
**Attack Thoughts** | Telepathy | 1 | 2 | vs. Resist | Medium |  | You blast the thoughts of a creature, making them unable to think clearly.<br/><strong>Weak. </strong>Deal +2 psychic damage (ignoring AV).<br/><strong>Strong. </strong>Deal +4 psychic damage (ignoring AV) and the target is briefly confused.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>Deal +6 psychic damage (ignoring AV) and the target is confused for a short time. They can roll Spirit + Fortitude vs. your Resist at the end of their turns to end the effect early.
**Control Beast** | Telepathy | 1 | 2 | vs. Resist | Close | concentrate | You dominate the mind of an animal with no more than a d4 Mind you can see within range. The target has to be of a tier equal to or lower than your Arcana.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> The target is briefly stunned. <br/><strong>Strong. </strong>You briefly take control of the target, choosing what they do on their next turn.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>You take control of the target for a short duration, choosing what they do on their turns.<br/>After the spell ends, the target is aware you influenced their mind. They can roll Spirit + Fortitude at the end of their turns to end the effect early. Once they do, you can no longer cast this spell against them for the rest of the scene.<br/>
**Foresight** | Telepathy | 1 | 2 | Moderate (8) | Self | quick | You heighten your senses, granting you an instinctual glimpse into the immediate future. Cast this when being attacked or on your turn.<br/><strong>Weak. </strong>Attacks against you briefly suffer +1 bane.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Attacks against you briefly suffer +1 bane and you briefly gain +1 boon on your next attack roll.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> Attacks against you briefly suffer +1 bane, you briefly gain +1 boon and add your Arcana as damage on your next attack roll.
**Psychometry** | Telepathy | 1 | 2 | Moderate (8) | Touch | ritual (minutes) | Touching an inanimate object, you gain insights into it’s recent history and what events took place around it.<br/><strong>Weak. </strong>You gain one Discovery.<br/><strong>Strong. </strong>You gain two Discovery.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>You gain three Discovery.<br/>You can spend one Discovery, the same as when rolling for Discovery, to gain insights into the objects history or what events took place around them. Both have to have taken place during the last week.<br/>You can only cast this spell once per object.<br/>
**Subtle Suggestion** | Telepathy | 1 | 2 | vs. Resist | Medium |  | You subtly plant a suggested action in a creature‘s mind.<br/>Choose any simple action that doesn‘t inflict harm on the creature or one of it‘s allies.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> The target suffers +1 bane on any action on their next turn, unless it is following the suggested action.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> The target suffers +2 banes on any action on their next turn, unless it is following the suggested action.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> The target is forced to take the suggested action on their next turn.<br/>After the spell ends, the target is aware you influenced their mind. Once you fail to cast this spell against any creature, it is immune against it for the rest of the scene.<br/>
**Forced Suggestion** | Telepathy | 2 | 4 | vs. Resist | Short |  | You speak an word of command, forcing your target to take a certain course of action.<br/>Choose any reasonable sounding course of action that doesn‘t inflict harm on the creature itself. If the creature is in combat with you or otherwise actively aggressive towards you, you suffer +1 bane on the roll.<br/>On a success, the target is forced to pursue your suggested course of action without distraction.<br/>This spell lasts until the course of action is complete or for a short duration. The target can roll Spirit + Insight vs. your Resist at the end of their turns to end the effect early. The effect also ends early if the target takes damage from any source.<br/>After the spell ends, the target is aware you influenced their mind. <br/>
**Nullify Spell** | Telepathy | 2 | 4 | vs. Resist | Short | quick | You invade the mind of a creature, interrupting them in the middle of casting a spell.<br/>Cast this spell when a creature in range casts a spell. Add their spell‘s rank to their Resist against this spell.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> You nullify the spell they were about to cast.<br/><strong>Strong. </strong>Deal +2 psychic damage (ignoring AV) and you nullify the spell they were about to cast.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>Deal +4 psychic damage (ignoring AV) and you nullify the spell they were about to cast.
**Psychic Wave** | Telepathy | 2 | 4 | vs. Resist | Short | blast (cone) | You send out a wave of destructive mental energy.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +2 psychic damage (ignoring AV) against each target.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Deal +4 psychic damage (ignoring AV) against each target and they are briefly dazed.<strong> <br/>Critical. </strong>Deal +6 psychic damage (ignoring AV) against each target and they are dazed for a short time. They can roll Spirit + Fortitude vs. your Resist at the end of their turns to end the effect early.
**Invade Dreams** | Telepathy | 3 | 6 | vs. Resist | Touch | ritual (minutes) | <em>You invade the dreams of a sleeping, intelligent creature and make them believe anything they see in their dreams to be prophecies or visions.</em>
**Kinetic Pull** | Telekinetics | 0 | 0 | vs. Dodge | Short |  | You telekinetically hold onto a target object or creature of medium or smaller size within range and violently pull them towards you.<br/>When targeting an object held by a creature, you suffer +1 bane on the roll.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Pull the target up to a close distance towards you.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Pull the target up to a close distance towards you and they fall prone.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> Pull the target up to a short distance towards you and they fall prone.<br/>This Movement is treated the same as pushing in regards to Opportunity Attacks, larger creatures, and other effects.<br/>
**Kinetic Push** | Telekinetics | 0 | 0 | vs. Dodge | Short |  | You rapidly extend your open hand forward, shooting a blast wave against the target from it.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +2 blast damage.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Deal +4 blast damage and push the target close.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> Deal +6 blast damage and push the target a short distance.
**Weak Telekinesis** | Telekinetics | 0 | 0 | Special | Short |  | You hold out your hand and grasp at an object in range, slowly levitating it it into the air. The object can be of small or tiny size and take up to your encumbrance limit in load. The object can be any loose object lying around, or ammo, a weapon, or another item you carry.<br/>You can choose to either move or throw the object towards a target location.<br/><br/><strong>Move.</strong> Roll vs. moderate difficulty (8). On a success, you move the object up to a short distance within range. You can choose to concentrate on this spell and hold your grasp on the object until your next turn. During your next turn, you can cast this spell again to move the object further. On a failure, you drop the object at it’s current location.<br/><br/><strong>Throw.</strong> Roll vs. Dodge against a single target in range.  On a hit, the object deals 2 weapon damage in addition to your spell base damage. If you throw a weapon, apply it’s properties and effects in addition to the spell effect.
**Gravity Orb** | Telekinetics | 1 | 2 | vs. Dodge | Medium | concentrate | You create a tiny orb of pure force at the target location, pulling everything around it towards it. This spell targets every medium or smaller sized creature in close range of the orb.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Each target is briefly slowed.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Each target is briefly grappled by the orb.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> Each target is briefly grappled and restrained by orb.<br/>The close area around the orb is considered difficult terrain. When any medium or smaller sized creature first enters the orb‘s range or starts it‘s turn there, they have to roll Strength + Athletics. On a failure, they are briefly grappled and restrained by the orb.<br/>The orb lasts for a short duration.<br/>
**Reflective Barrier** | Telekinetics | 1 | 2 | Moderate (8) | Self | concentrate | You create a nearly invisible energy barrier around you, held up by your mental power.<br/>On a success, the barrier grants you +4 AV (armor bonus) and lasts for a short duration.<br/>While the barrier is active, when you are attacked by a ranged attack and they miss you, you can use a Quick Action to reflect their attack back on them. Roll Mind + Arcana vs. their Dodge. On a hit, resolve the attack’s normal effects.<br/>
**Shockwave** | Telekinetics | 1 | 2 | vs. Dodge | Close |  | You spread your arms out from you, sending a shockwave of kinetic energy in all directions.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +2 blast damage against all creatures and objects in range.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Deal +4 blast damage against all creatures and objects in range and push them close away from you.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> Deal +6 blast damage against all creatures and objects in range, push them close away from you, and they fall prone.
**Telekinetic Crush** | Telekinetics | 1 | 2 | vs. Resist | Medium |  | You telekinetically grasp at a creature, suffocating them inside a giant, invisible hand.<br/><strong>Weak. </strong>Deal +4 crush damage.<br/><strong>Strong. </strong>Deal +8 crush damage.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>Deal +12 crush damage.
**Telekinetic Volley** | Telekinetics | 1 | 2 | Special | Short |  | You telekinetically take hold of multiple small items. Choose up to three tiny objects, such as ammo, stones, or household objects taking up 2 or less load each. The objects can be any loose object lying around, or ammo, a weapon, or another item you carry.<br/>You can choose to either move or throw the objects towards a target location.<br/><br/><strong>Move.</strong> Roll vs. moderate difficulty (8). On a success, you move the objects in a cluster up to a short distance within range. You can choose to concentrate on this spell and hold your grasp on the objects until your next turn. During your next turn, you can cast this spell again to move the objects further. On a failure, you drop the objects at their current location.<br/><br/><strong>Throw.</strong> Once per object, roll vs. Dodge against a target in range. You can choose the same or different targets for each thrown object. On a hit, each object deals 2 weapon damage in addition to your spell base damage. If you throw a weapon, apply it’s properties and effects in addition to the spell effect.
**Levitation** | Telekinetics | 2 | 4 | Hard (10) | Medium | concentrate | You push yourself against the pull of the earth, letting you hover visibly above the ground.<br/>On a success, you start levitating. While levitating, you gain the following effects:<br/>- You gain +1 boon on Agility + Cunning rolls to move silently.<br/>- You can’t move more than a short distance per turn.<br/>- You ignore the effects of difficult terrain from the ground below you.<br/>- You don‘t trigger any mechanisms in the ground, such as pressure plates.<br/>- When you would fall, you instead softly glide a short distance per round lower.<br/>The levitation lasts for a medium duration. If the spell ends while you still fall, you fall the remaining distance as normal.<br/>
**Orbiting Shards** | Telekinetics | 2 | 4 | Hard (10) | Self | concentrate | <em>You let five small objects orbit around your body. They can block attacks against you, or you can send them out to deal damage.</em>
**Stasis** | Telekinetics | 2 | 4 | vs. Resist | Medium | concentrate | You pressure a creature in kinetic force from all sides, making them unable to move. You suffer +1 bane on the roll for every size category the target is larger than you.<br/>On a success, the target is stunned while you concentrate on this spell. If the target takes damage while stunned by this spell, you automatically lose concentration for it and the effect ends.<br/>You can use your Action on your next turn to repeat the roll for this spell without spending additional Focus. On a success, continue the spell’s effect. On a failure or if you choose not to use your Action to continue the spell, the spell ends and you can’t continue to cast it for free.<br/>
**Strong Telekinesis** | Telekinetics | 2 | 4 | Special | Medium |  | You hold out your hand and grasp at a large object in range, slowly levitating it it into the air. The object can be of large or smaller size and take up to 10 x your encumbrance limit in load. The object can be any loose object lying around, or ammo, a weapon, or another item you carry.<br/>You can choose to either move or throw the object towards a target location.<br/><br/><strong>Move.</strong> Roll vs. very hard difficulty (12). On a success, you move the object up to a short distance within range. You can choose to concentrate on this spell and hold your grasp on the object until your next turn. During your next turn, you can cast this spell again to move the object further. On a failure, you drop the object at it’s current location.<br/><br/><strong>Throw.</strong> Roll vs. Dodge against a single target in range. On a hit, the object deals 6 weapon damage in addition to your spell base damage. If you throw a weapon, apply it’s properties and effects in addition to the spell effect.
**Distortion Field** | Telekinetics | 3 | 6 | vs. Resist | Medium | concentrate | <em>you create a field through which any ranged attack gets bend away, possibly hitting another target in range outside of it. Enemies inside the field take damage and it is considered difficult terrain for them</em>
**Invert Gravity** | Telekinetics | 4 | 8 | vs. Resist | Medium | concentrate | <em>you know what it does… but it can also create a field of no gravity, making everyone float!</em>
**Drain Life** | Necromancy | 0 | 0 | vs. Resist | Medium |  | You inflict the target with a spectral necrotic energy, draining their very life force.<br/><strong>Weak. </strong>Deal +2 necrotic damage.<br/><strong>Strong. </strong>Deal +4 necrotic damage and regain +0 HP.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>Deal +6 necrotic damage and regain +2 HP.
**Enfeebling Grasp** | Necromancy | 0 | 0 | vs. Resist | Medium |  | You summon a ghostly translucent claw, taking hold of the target and draining their strength.<br/><strong>Weak. </strong>Deal +2 necrotic damage.<br/><strong>Strong. </strong>Deal +4 necrotic damage and briefly reduce their Strength die by one step.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>Deal +6 necrotic damage and reduce their Strength die by one step for a short duration.<br/>They can roll Spirit + Fortitude at the end of their turns to end the effect early.<br/>
**Life Echo** | Necromancy | 0 | 0 | Moderate (8) | Touch |  | You pry the mind of one deceased creature with an intact head, that died no further back than one week.<br/><strong>Weak. </strong>You gain one Discovery.<br/><strong>Strong. </strong>You gain two Discovery.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>You gain three Discovery.<br/>You can spend one Discovery, the same as when rolling for Discovery, to gain insights into the deceased creatures thoughts and emotions before death.<br/>You can only cast this spell once per deceased creature.<br/>
**Animate Corpse** | Necromancy | 1 | 2 | Moderate (8) | Touch | concentrate, ritual (minutes) | You sacrifice your own life force to animate the corpse of a creature with medium or smaller size in range as an undead creature. The creature’s remains must not be missing any crucial body parts for it to be animated. You can choose to either animate them in the form of a zombie or a skeleton. You can equip the undead creature with weapons. If the remains are heavily decayed, you can only animate them as a skeleton.<br/>On a success, reduce your current and maximum HP by 5 and reanimate the remains under your control (treat the creature as a companion for combat).<br/><br/>The undead creature stays animated for a medium duration. While you control the undead creature, you can choose to end the spell animating them. When you lose concentration on this spell, you instead lose control of the undead creature, but it stays animated for the rest of the duration, violently attacking any living creatures around it. After you stop controlling the undead creature, your maximum HP returns to normal.<br/>Any corpse animated as an undead creature once is then unusable for this spell.<br/>
**Control Undead** | Necromancy | 1 | 2 | vs. Resist | Short | concentrate | You dominate the evil spirit in one undead creature you can see within range. The target has to be of a tier equal to or lower than your Arcana.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> The target is briefly stunned. <br/><strong>Strong. </strong>You briefly take control of the target, choosing what they do on their next turn.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>You take control of the target for a short duration, choosing what they do on their turns.<br/>They can roll Spirit + Fortitude at the end of their turns to end the effect early. Once they do, you can no longer cast this spell against them for the rest of the scene.<br/>
**Death Bolt** | Necromancy | 1 | 2 | vs. Dodge | Medium |  | You conjure a bolt of pure negative energy and hurl it against the target.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +4 necrotic damage.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Deal +8 necrotic damage.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> Deal +12 necrotic damage.
**Grasp of Decay** | Necromancy | 1 | 2 | vs. Resist | Medium |  | You envelop your target in ethereal, necrotic energy slowly draining their life.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +3 necrotic damage and they take 2 lasting necrotic damage for a short duration.<br/><strong>Strong. </strong>Deal +6 necrotic damage and they take 4 lasting necrotic damage for a short duration.<br/><strong>Critical. </strong>Deal +9 necrotic damage they take 6 lasting necrotic damage for a short duration.<br/>They can roll Spirit + Fortitude at the end of their turns to end the effect early.<br/>
**Animate Horde** | Necromancy | 2 | 4 | Hard (10) | Close | concentrate, ritual (minutes) | With an incantation of ancient power, you call forth a dark surge of necromantic energy that animates three corpses to rise as loyal undead servants under your command.<br/>Choose up to three corpses of creatures with medium or smaller size in range. The creatures’ remains must not be missing any crucial body parts for it to be animated. You can choose to either animate them in the form of <br/>zombies or skeletons (you can’t mix between both types of undead). You can equip the undead creatures with weapons. If the remains are heavily decayed, you can only animate them as skeletons.<br/>On a success, reduce your current and maximum HP by 10 and reanimate the remains under your control (treat the creatures as companions for combat, they always act as a singular troop).<br/><br/>The undead creatures stay animated for a medium duration. While you control the undead creatures, you can choose to end the spell animating them. When you lose concentration on this spell, you instead lose control of the undead creatures, but they stay animated for the rest of the duration, violently attacking any living creatures around them. After you stop controlling the undead creatures, your maximum HP returns to normal.<br/>Any corpse animated as an undead creature once is then unusable for this spell.<br/>
**Inflict Curse** | Necromancy | 2 | 4 | vs. Resist | Close | singular | With a malevolent chant and a wave of your hand, you cast a powerful curse upon a target, subjecting them to a lingering maleficent influence.<br/>Choose one of their attributes (Strength, Agility, Spirit, or Mind).<br/>On a success, the target suffers the following effects:<br/>- Their attribute die for the chosen attribute is reduced by one step.<br/>- They suffer +1 bane on any attack rolls against you.<br/>- You gain +1 boon on attacks against the target.<br/>The curse lasts for a long duration.<br/>
**Shroud of Blight** | Necromancy | 2 | 4 | vs. Resist | Medium | concentrate | You summon a shroud of necrotic energy, inflicting fear on any creature within it. The shroud extends in a close area around the target location and targets all living creatures within it.<br/><strong>Weak.</strong> Deal +3 necrotic damage to each target.<br/><strong>Strong.</strong> Deal +6 necrotic damage to each target and they are briefly frightened by the shroud.<br/><strong>Critical.</strong> Deal +9 necrotic damage to each target and they are briefly frightened by the shroud.<br/>Any living creature attempting to enter the shroud for the first time on their turns has to roll Spirit + Fortitude vs. your Resist. On a failure, they take +6 necrotic damage and are overwhelmed by intense fear are briefly frightened by the shroud, and instantly have to roll their Fear check.<br/>The shroud lasts for a short duration. It can also be expelled early by any effect causing strong winds in the same area of influence.<br/>
