 **Name** | **Skill Requirement** | **Description** 
---|---|---
 **Arcane Spell Knowledge** | Arcana | **(Rank 1)** Learn two rank 0 or 1 spells for any of your disciplines, or adopt a new discipline and learn one new rank 0 spell for it. You can choose this Talent multiple times.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** Learn two rank 2 or lower spells for any of your disciplines. You can choose this Talent multiple times.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** Learn two rank 3 or lower spells for any of your disciplines. You can choose this Talent multiple times. 
 **Inexhaustible Mind** | Arcana | **(Rank 1)** During a short break, you can meditate to recharge your mind’s power. You regain half your max. Focus. You can use this ability a number of times per day equal to your Arcana.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you have no Focus left, you can still cast spells by spending 2 HP for every 1 Focus you would have to spend normally.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When you use your Inexhaustible Mind ability during a short break, you regain all your Focus instead. 
 **Master of Fundamentals** | Arcana | **(Rank 1)** When you cast an arcane rank 0 spell, you can choose to re-roll the test. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you hit with an arcane rank 0 spell that deals damage, add your Arcana to the damage.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When you cast an arcane rank 0 spell on your turn, you can use a Quick Action to cast the same spell again, but suffer +1 bane on the roll. 
 **Spellblade** | Arcana | **(Rank 1)** When making an attack with a weapon that is mounted with an arcane conduit, you are able to infuse your spells into it.<br />You can choose any of your arcane rank 0 non-ritual spells that targets the Defense of one or more enemies within your weapon‘s range.<br />Roll your weapon attack. On a hit, apply the spell‘s effects, except for it‘s spell damage, according to the SL of your attack in addition to your normal weapon attack. Your attack‘s damage type becomes that of the spell‘s damage.<br />Also spend the spell‘s Focus cost, but increase it by 2.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You can also use arcane rank 1 non-ritual spells that targets the Defense of one or more enemies within your weapon‘s range with your Spellblade ability.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** You can also use arcane rank 2 non-ritual spells that targets the Defense of one or more enemies within your weapon‘s range with your Spellblade ability. 
 **Spellweaver** | Arcana | **(Rank 1)** You are able to use Metamagic Arts along with your arcane spells. You learn any two Metamagic Arts.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** Learn two more Metamagic Arts.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** Learn two more Metamagic Arts. 
 **Ammo Specialist** | Archery | **(Rank 1)** When you have to roll a Supply check for your ammo, roll twice and take the higher result.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You carry special types of ammo with you. When attacking with a ranged weapon that uses ammo, you can choose between barbed [slash], bodkin [pierce], and blunt [crush]. Gain the property of the chosen option for your attack. Immediately after the attack, make a Supply check for your ammo.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When you attack with special ammo from your Ammo Specialist ability, you also add your Archery to the damage. 
 **Art of Archery** | Archery | **(Rank 1)** You learn two more Combat Arts which can be used with bows, crossbows, or thrown weapons.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- You learn two more Combat Arts which can be used with bows, crossbows, or thrown weapons.<br />- Increase the difficulty of rolls imposed on your target by effects of Combat Arts for ranged weapons by one step.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- You learn two more Combat Arts which can be used with bows, crossbows, or thrown weapons.<br />- You can choose to increase the SL of any Combat Art for ranged weapons you use by one step. You can use this ability once per scene. 
 **Crossbow Mastery** | Archery | **(Rank 1)** You can reload your crossbow using an Action or a Quick Action on your turn.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you hit with a crossbow, you can use a Quick Action to ignore 1/2 the target‘s AV.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When you hit with a strong or critical success with a crossbow, the target has to roll Strength + Fortitude. If they fail, they are briefly dazed. 
 **Disciplined Archer** | Archery | **(Rank 1)** You can choose to re-roll any attack roll with a ranged weapon. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You can use your Combat Arts for ranged weapons two times per encounter each, but each individual Combat Art not two turns in a row.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** You can use your Disciplined Archer ability to re-roll an attack with a ranged weapon once between turns instead. 
 **Expert Slinger** | Archery | **(Rank 1)** When you have to make a Supply check for a bundle of thrown weapons, roll twice and take the higher result.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You can make ranged attacks with thrown weapons one range category further than normal.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** If you hit a creature with a thrown attack, you gain +1 boon on the next thrown attack against them during the same turn. 
 **Rapid Shot** | Archery | **(Rank 1)** When attacking with a non-heavy ranged weapon, you can attack twice with it during the same Action, but you suffer +1 bane on both attacks. You can use this ability once per turn.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When attacking multiple times with a ranged weapon, you only suffer +1 bane on one of the attacks (your choice).<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** You suffer no banes from attacking multiple times with a ranged weapon. 
 **Sharpshooter** | Archery | **(Rank 1)** When attacking with a ranged weapon, you only suffer cumulative banes from increased range beyond long range.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you attack with a ranged weapon, you deal +2 damage at medium range, +4 damage at long range, or +6 damage at very long range.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When attacking with a ranged weapon, you only suffer cumulative banes beyond very long range. 
 **Strong Grip** | Archery | **(Rank 1)** If your Strength die is one or more steps larger than the heavy property of a ranged weapon, you can choose to attack with it as if it was a non-heavy weapon.  Effects that rely on a heavy weapon will not meet their condition anymore when doing so.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** Using the Power Shot Combat Art with a heavy ranged weapon doesn&#x27;t impose +1 bane on your attack.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When you hit with a heavy ranged weapon, add half it’s Strength requirement from the heavy property as damage. 
 **Athletic Movement** | Athletics | You can’t use any of these abilities while wearing heavy armor.<br /><br />**(Rank 1)** When rolling Athletics during special types of Movement, such as crawling, crouching, climbing, swimming, while jumping, or when using the Vault action, you can re-roll the test. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- You can also use the Vault Action using a Quick Action on your turn.<br />- During special types of Movement, such as crawling, crouching, climbing, and swimming, you don‘t move as in difficult terrain.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- When jumping, you can jump a short distance instead.<br />- When you would take falling damage, treat your distance as one category lower. 
 **Bulky** | Athletics | **(Rank 1)** Gain +2 HP. Add +4 load for how much you can carry before becoming encumbered or over-encumbered.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** Gain +2 HP. You are able to move heavy objects up to 20 x Strength in load and with normal Movement up to 2 x Over-Encumbrance.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** Gain +2 HP. You gain the following abilities:<br />- Add +8 load for how much you can carry before becoming encumbered or over-encumbered instead.<br />- You are able to move heavy objects up to 40 x Strength in load and with normal Movement up to 4 x Over-Encumbrance instead. 
 **Escape Artist** | Athletics | You can’t use any of these abilities while wearing heavy armor.<br /><br />**(Rank 1)** When you are the target of a Grapple, Shove, or Trip action or similar roll which attempts to grapple, push, or knock you prone, the attacker suffers +1 bane on their roll.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** +1 Dodge. Whenever you can roll Athletics with an Action to end the effect that grapples or restrains you, you can also use a Quick Action on your turn for the roll instead.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** +1 Dodge. When some attack against you that tries to grapple, push, or knock you prone fails, you can choose to immediately spend 1 Movement without provoking Opportunity Attacks from the attacker. You can use this ability once between your turns. 
 **Evasion** | Athletics | You can’t use any of these abilities while wearing heavy armor.<br /><br />**(Rank 1)** You can also use the Retreat Action using a Quick Action on your turn.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You gain +1 Quick Action you can use between your turns.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When you take physical damage from any source, you can choose to halve that damage. You can use this ability once per scene. 
 **Fast Stride** | Athletics | You can’t use any of these abilities while wearing heavy armor.<br /><br />**(Rank 1)** You can also use the Dash Action using a Quick Action on your turn.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** +1 Dodge. If you moved a short distance or further during your turn, you gain +1 boon on your next attack during the same turn.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** +1 Dodge. During your turns, you get +1 Movement. 
 **Grappler** | Athletics | **(Rank 1)** When hitting a target no more than one size larger than you with an unarmed attack or with a brawling weapon, you can choose to also grapple the target. When doing so, this attack also counts as a Grapple Action. On a hit, the target is grappled by you.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** While you are grappling a creature and you hit them again with an unarmed attack or with a brawling weapon, you can choose to also restrain them while they are grappled by you.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- Creatures larger than you don’t impose banes on your grapple rolls and don’t gain boons from their Size to end your grapple against them.<br />- While grappling, add your Athletics as damage to attacks against the grappled target. 
 **Light Armor Mastery** | Athletics | **(Rank 1)** While wearing light armor and being attacked in melee, you can Evade without spending a Quick Action. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** +1 Dodge. Ignore the noisy property of light armor you wear. <br /><br />**(Rank 3)** +1 Dodge. You can use your Light Armor Mastery ability once between your turns instead. 
 **Artisan** | Crafting | **(Rank 1)** Choose one crafting profession (see Crafting under Downtime). You are able to create items of Quality 1 and Quality 2 of the chosen profession.<br />You can choose this talent multiple times to learn additional crafting professions.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** Choose one of your crafting professions. You are able to craft Quality 3 items of the chosen profession, or Quality 4 or you already were able to craft Quality 3 items.<br />You can choose this talent multiple times.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** Choose one crafting profession for which you can craft Quality 4 items. You are able to craft Quality 5 items of the chosen profession, or Quality 6 or you already were able to craft Quality 5 items.<br />You can choose this talent multiple times. 
 **Fast Worker** | Crafting | **(Rank 1)** You can craft items with a combined cost of 500 coins per week.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You can craft items with a combined cost of 2.000 coins per week.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** You can craft items with a combined cost of 5.000 coins per week. 
 **Nothing Wasted** | Crafting | **(Rank 1)** When you have to roll a Supply check for materials, roll twice and take the higher result.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you use a downtime activity to craft an item of one of your chosen professions, reduce the cost of crafting that item by 1/10 of the items cost.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** XXX 
 **Work of Art** | Crafting | improve the selling price for items you crafted or fixed up during the selling roll. 
 **Assassination** | Cunning | **(Rank 1)** When you hit an enemy that is unaware of you with an attack for the first time during an encounter, treat the SL of your attack against them as one step higher (max. critical success).<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- When you attack an enemy that hasn’t yet taken a turn during combat, you gain +1 boon on the attack. <br />- Missing an attack from stealth doesn‘t reveal your position to the target that is unaware of you.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When you hit an enemy that is unaware of you with an attack for the first time during that encounter, add your Cunning to your weapon damage against them. 
 **Devious Tactics** | Cunning | **(Rank 1)** You can also use the Distract Action as a Quick Action on your turn. When doing so, you can choose any suitable object or creature to be the source of the distraction and not yourself.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you use the Distract Action, you can target any number of close enemies instead.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** Your attacks against an distracted enemy gain +1 boon and deal +2 damage. 
 **Hidden Strike** | Cunning | **(Rank 1)** While you have no weapon drawn and are seemingly unarmed, you can attack with one light melee weapon you carry as an Action or a Quick Action on your turn. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** +1 Dodge. When you attack with your Hidden Strike ability, you gain +1 boon on the attack.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** +1 Dodge. When you hit with your Hidden Strike ability, the enemy is briefly dazed. 
 **Leading the Way** | Cunning | **(Rank 1)** When you and your allies attempt to sneak or surprise your enemies, all allies that can see you within close range of you can use the result of your roll instead of their own.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** Your Leading the Way ability extends to allies that can see you within short distance of you.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** Your Leading the Way ability extends to all allies that can see you within medium distance of you. 
 **Master Bluffer** | Cunning | **(Rank 1)** When you roll Cunning to convince somebody of a falsehood or make them doubt the truth of what they perceive, you can re-roll the test. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** XXX<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** XXX 
 **Sleight of Hand** | Cunning | **(Rank 1)** When you roll Cunning to pickpocket an item, palm an object, or plant a false item, you can re-roll the test. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** +1 Dodge. When you roll Agility + Cunning vs. Resist to pickpocket an item, palm an object, or plant a false item, the target doesn‘t notice your sleight of hand, even if you fail the roll. You can also use this against enemies in melee range during combat.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** +1 Dodge. XXX 
 **Diplomat** | Education | **(Rank 1)** When you roll Education for behaviours, values, taboos, or etiquette of another culture or group of intelligent creatures, you can re-roll the test. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you roll Education to gain Discovery about the behaviours, values, taboos, or etiquette of another culture or group of intelligent creatures, you gain +1 Discovery (even if you fail the roll).<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** XXX 
 **General Education** | Education | **(Rank 1)** When you roll for any expert skill you haven’t learned, you don’t suffer +1 bane for it from it being an untrained skill for you.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you roll for Discovery about any subject, you can choose to add your Education instead of any other skill. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When you use Education to roll for Discovery about any subject and succeed, gain +1 Discovery. 
 **Linguist** | Education | **(Rank 1)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- You learn one new common or exotic language.<br />- You are able to communicate simple ideas with other intelligent, non-hostile creatures, even if you don’t share a language.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- You learn two new common or exotic languages, or one new ancient language.<br />- When you use Education to roll for Discovery about the meaning of any written script or spoken language you don‘t know, you gain +1 Discovery (even if you fail the roll).<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- You learn two new common, exotic, or ancient languages. <br />- XXX 
 **Tactician** | Education | **(Rank 1)** When you roll Education to gain Discovery about enemies you intend to fight or the location your planned fight will take place, you or one of your allies can spend one Discovery during that combat to:<br />- Re-roll your Initiative test.<br />- Gain +1 boon on a roll.<br />- Impose +1 bane on an enemy’s roll.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you roll Education to gain Discovery about enemies you intend to fight or the location your fight will take place, you gain +1 Discovery (even if you fail the roll).<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When you roll Education to gain Discovery about enemies you intend to fight or the location your fight will take place, you or one of your allies can also spend one Discovery during that combat to:<br />- Regain 2 x your Education as HP during your or that ally‘s turn.<br />- Add your Education to the damage on any attack. 
 **Art of Fighting** | Fighting | **(Rank 1)** You learn two more Combat Arts which can be used with axes, blades, brawling, maces, polearms, or shields.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- You learn two more Combat Arts which can be used with axes, blades, brawling, maces, polearms, or shields.<br />- Increase the difficulty of rolls imposed on your target by effects of Combat Arts for melee weapons by one step.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- You learn two more Combat Arts which can be used with axes, blades, brawling, maces, polearms, or shields.<br />- You can choose to increase the SL of any Combat Art for melee weapons you use by one step. You can use this ability once per scene. 
 **Crush Weapon Mastery** | Fighting | **(Rank 1)** When you deal damage with a melee crush weapon, your total damage can‘t be reduced below your weapon damage by the enemy‘s AV.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you use a Combat Art with a melee crush weapon and the target must roll Strength + Fortitude, increase the difficulty by one step.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When you deal damage with a melee crush weapon, you can choose to ignore the enemy‘s AV completely. You can use this ability once per scene. 
 **Defensive Dueling** | Fighting | **(Rank 1)** Battle Stance<br />If you don‘t wield a heavy weapon or a shield, you can enter this stance. While in this stance, you gain +1 Parry.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** While in this stance, you can use the Guard Quick Action, even if you don‘t wear a shield.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** While in this stance, if you successfully parried a melee attack against you since your last turn, you gain +1 boon and deal +2 damage against that creature with your next attack. 
 **Disciplined Fighter** | Fighting | **(Rank 1)** You can choose to re-roll any attack roll with a melee weapon. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You can use your Combat Arts for melee weapons two times per encounter each, but each individual Combat Art not two turns in a row.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** You can use your Disciplined Fighter ability to re-roll an attack with a melee weapon once between turns instead. 
 **Dual Wielder** | Fighting | **(Rank 1)** When attacking with two light weapons, you only suffer +1 bane on one of the attacks (your choice).<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- You suffer no banes for attacking with two light weapons.<br />- You can also use non-heavy weapons for dual-wielding, but suffer +1 bane on attacks with them when doing so.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When attacking with two weapons, you can roll another attack with one of the weapons but you suffer +1 bane on it. 
 **Hoplite** | Fighting | **(Rank 1)** Battle Stance<br />If you wield a polearm and a shield, you can enter this stance. While in this stance, you gain the following abilities:<br />- You impose +1 bane on rolls that attempt to knock you prone or push you.<br />- You can use Combat Arts for your shield when attacking with your polearm in melee range.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** While in this stance, you also gain the following abilities:<br />- You don‘t suffer +1 bane from attacking with a reach polearm in melee range.<br />- When an enemy moves into your melee range, you can use a Quick Action for an Opportunity Attack against them.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** While in this stance, you also gain the following abilities:<br />- When you use the Charge Combat Art, add 1/2 your Strength to the damage.<br />- You are immune against being knocked prone or getting pushed by other creatures. 
 **Martial Artist** | Fighting | **(Rank 1)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- You can use unarmed attacks, any non-heavy polearm, brawling, or improvised weapon as if it was agile.<br />- You don’t suffer +1 bane when attacking with improvised weapons.<br />- You can use Combat Arts with improvised weapons as if they were brawling weapons.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- You can use any non-heavy weapon as if it was agile.<br />- You ignore the fragile property of improvised weapons.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When you hit with an agile weapon, you can use a Quick Action to make another attack with it. You suffer +1 bane on this attack. 
 **Protective Stance** | Fighting | **(Rank 1)** Battle Stance<br />While you wield a shield, you can enter this stance on your turn. While in this stance, when you use Protect Ally, the enemy suffers +1 bane on the attack against you.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** While in this stance, you can use a Quick Action to half the damage an ally in your melee range takes from an attack. You can use this ability once between your turns.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** While in this stance, when you use Protect Ally, you have resistance against the damage you take from the attack. 
 **Pugilist** | Fighting | **(Rank 1)** +2 HP. Your unarmed attacks count as light weapons that deal +2 weapon damage.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** +2 HP. You gain the following abilities:<br />- Unarmed attacks deal +3 weapon damage instead. <br />- When you have hit an enemy unarmed or with a brawling weapon, they suffer +1 bane on rolls that target anyone but you. This effect lasts until you leave their melee range or until your next turn.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** +2 HP. You gain the following abilities:<br />- Unarmed attacks deal +4 weapon damage instead. <br />- When you have hit an enemy unarmed or with a brawling weapon, you regain your Fortitude as HP. 
 **Riposte** | Fighting | **(Rank 1)** When an enemy misses their melee attack against your Parry, while you wield a non-heavy weapon, you can use a Quick Action for an Opportunity Attack against that enemy using that weapon for the attack.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you hit an enemy with an Opportunity Attack, their Movement is reduced to 0 for the rest of their turn.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When you use your Riposte ability to make an Opportunity Attack and you hit, the enemy is briefly dazed. 
 **Shield Mastery** | Fighting | **(Rank 1)** When an enemy hits you with a melee attack while you wield a shield, you can use a Quick Action to reduce the SL of their attack by one step (min. failure). Immediately after the attack, roll a Durability check for your shield.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** Reduce the rigid property of shields you wield by 1.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When you use your Shield Mastery ability and have to make a Durability check of your shield, make the check twice and take the higher result. 
 **Adrenaline Rush** | Fortitude | something with taking damage to gain benefits. 
 **Battle Rage** | Fortitude | **(Rank 1)** Battle Stance<br />While you wear no heavy armor, you can enter this stance on your turn. While in this stance, you gain the following effects:<br />- You gain +1 boon on all Strength rolls.<br />- When attacking with a melee weapon using Strength, add your Fortitude to the damage.<br />- You suffer +1 bane on all Mind rolls and can’t cast or concentrate on spells.<br /><br />When the encounter ends or you fall unconscious, you automatically leave this stance. When this happens, roll Strength + Fortitude. On a failure, you suffer one Fatigue.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** While in this stance, you also gain the following effects:<br />- You gain +1 Resist.<br />- When entering this stance, gain 10 temporary HP.<br />- You ignore effects from Wounds you suffer.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** While in this stance, you also gain the following effects:<br />- You gain +2 Resist instead.<br />When leaving this stance, you don‘t have to roll Strength + Fortitude anymore. 
 **Body of Bronze** | Fortitude | **(Rank 1)** +2 HP. While you wear no armor, add your Fortitude to your AV as armor.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** +2 HP. While you wear no armor, you have resistance against physical damage.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** +2 HP. While you wear no armor, you are immune against being dazed or stunned. 
 **Drunken Technique** | Fortitude | **(Rank 1)** Battle Stance<br />While intoxicated, you can enter this stance on your turn. While in this stance, you gain the following effects:<br />- When an enemy misses you with a melee attack, you can spend a Quick Action to redirect the attack against another creature in melee range. The attack automatically hits as a weak success.<br />- When you are prone, you can stand up on your turn without spending Movement.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** While in the Drunken Technique stance, you also gain the following effects:<br />- You gain +1 Dodge.<br />- You can Evade any melee attack from an enemy without using a Quick Action.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** While in the Drunken Technique stance, you also gain the following effects:<br />- You gain +1 Resist.<br />- You don’t suffer +1 bane from being poisoned.<br />- XXX 
 **Explorer‘s Tenacity** | Fortitude | **(Rank 1)** Gain +2 HP. When you roll Fortitude during travel to withstand the elements, the climate, or other environmental hazards, you can re-roll the test.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** Gain +2 HP. You gain the following abilities:<br />- During a night’s rest or bad night, you lose double the normal amount of Fatigue.<br />- When you suffer an Injury, you can choose to suffer one Fatigue instead. You can use this ability once per day.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** Gain +2 HP. You gain the following abilities:<br />- During a bad night, you still can roll a hard Strength + Fortitude test to heal one previously treated Injury.<br />- When you have to make a Supply check for provisions during travel, roll twice and take the higher result. When you would automatically lose units of provisions, reduce the amount you lose by one. 
 **Hard to Kill** | Fortitude | **(Rank 1)** +2 HP. When you suffer a Wound or start dying and have to roll 1d4 in either situation, roll twice and choose any one of the results.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** +2 HP. When you would suffer one Wound, you can choose to ignore it. You can use this ability once per day.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** +2 HP. When you use your Hard to Kill ability to ignore a Wound, you immediately regain your Strength as HP. 
 **Heavy Armor Mastery** | Fortitude | **(Rank 1)** While wearing heavy armor and when you take damage, you can use a Quick Action to double the AV bonus of your worn armor against that attack. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** Reduce the rigid property of heavy armor you wear by 1.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** You can use your Heavy Armor Mastery ability once between your turns instead. 
 **Juggernaut** | Fortitude | **(Rank 1)** +2 HP. When in melee range with multiple enemies, you gain +1 AV for each of them beyond the first. You can gain up to 2 x Fortitude as AV from this ability.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** +2 HP. When in melee range of multiple enemies, you can use your Action or Quick Action on your turn to attack each one of them with a single melee attack. When doing so, you suffer +1 bane on the attack. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** +2 HP. You can use your Juggernaut ability to attack all enemies in melee range once between your turns instead. 
 **Second Wind** | Fortitude | **(Rank 1)** Gain +2 HP. You can use your Action or Quick Action on your turn to regain 1/2 Strength + Fortitude as HP. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** Gain +2 HP. When you use your Second Wind ability, you regain Strength + 2 x Fortitude as HP instead.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** Gain +2 HP. You can use your Second Wind ability twice per scene, but still only once per turn. 
 **Strong Mind** | Fortitude | **(Rank 1)** When you have to roll Spirit + Fortitude to concentrate on a spell or withstand an effect that attempts to frighten you, break your morale, charm you, or otherwise influence your mind, you can re-roll the test.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** +1 Resist. While you are under the influence of an effect that frightens you, charms you, or otherwise influences your mind, you can choose to immediately end the effect. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** +1 Resist. You gain resistance against psychic damage. 
 **Tough Stomach** | Fortitude | **(Rank 1)** Gain +2 HP. When you have to roll Fortitude to withstand poison, intoxication, or illnesses, you can re-roll the test. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** Gain +2 HP. When you are suffering the poisoned, frightened, or dazed condition, you can use a Quick Action to end it immediately. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** Gain +2 HP. You can use your Tough Stomach ability to immediately end a condition affecting you once between your turns instead. 
 **Born Haggler** | Influence | **(Rank 1)** You always sell an item for at least half it’s cost, regardless of your roll.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When selling items during downtime, add +1 boon to your Influence roll for selling.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When searching for rare items during downtime, add +1 boon to your Influence roll to find the items you are looking for. 
 **Fast Talking** | Influence | **(Rank 1)** When you fail an Influence roll in any social situation, you can choose to re-roll the test. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You can also use your Fast Talking ability to assist an ally in conversation. When doing so, they can add your Influence instead of their own to a roll.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** Immediately before combat would begin and if you and your enemies see, hear, and understand each other, you can attempt to verbally confuse them.<br />Roll Mind + Influence vs. Resist against all enemies hearing and understanding you. On a success, their Initiative is reduced by one category and they are briefly dazed. 
 **Inspire Ally** | Influence | **(Rank 1)** Use a Quick Action to inspire an ally that can see and hear you within short range. You can use this ability to grant an ally +1 boon on a roll they are about to make. You can use this ability once between turns.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** Whenever you use Inspire Ally on the attack roll of an ally and they hit their target, they add your Influence to the damage.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- You can also use Inspire Ally on yourself.<br />- Whenever you use Inspire Ally, the target regains your Influence as HP. 
 **Insult to Injury** | Influence | **(Rank 1)** After you hit an enemy with an attack, you can use a Quick Action to use Distract with +1 boon against them.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** While an enemy is distracted by you, you or one of your allies add your Influence to the damage against them.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When an enemy distracted by you would lose the condition because they took damage from another creature than you, you can use a Quick Action to immediately use Distract against them again to continue the distraction. 
 **Leading Presence ** | Influence | **(Rank 1)** While you can see and hear each other, allies in short distance of you gain the following effects:<br />- You gain +1 boon on your Initiative roll.<br />- You gain +1 boon on Spirit rolls against being frightened or losing morale.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** While you can see and hear each other, allies in short distance of you gain the following effects:<br />- You gain +1 Resist.<br />- You deal +2 damage.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** You also gain the effects of your Leading Presence ability and it extends to all allies in long distance of you. 
 **Empath** | Insight | **(Rank 1)** When you roll Insight about the emotional state, personality, or life of another intelligent creature, you can re-roll the test. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you roll Insight to gain Discovery about the emotional state, personality, or life of another intelligent creature, you gain +1 Discovery (even if you fail the roll).<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** You can use one Discovery about the emotional state, personality, or life of another intelligent creature during a scene to:<br />- Use the Distract Action against them for free.<br />- Gain +1 boon and add your Insight to the damage on one attack against them. 
 **Intuitive Appraisal** | Insight | **(Rank 1)** After spending a delving turn with an object, you can estimate it‘s Quality and material worth in coin (not including magical properties). <br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You gain +1 boon on any Spirit roll during downtime to buy items.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** XXX  
 **Piercing Look** | Insight | **(Rank 1)** When you roll Insight to know if a creature is lying or how they will act, you can re-roll the test. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** As an Action or a Quick Action on your turn, you can focus your attention on one creature you can see in long range. Roll Spirit + Insight vs. Resist. On a success, your rolls against the creature gain +1 boon and any rolls the creature makes against you suffer +1 bane. This effect lasts for a short duration. You can succeed on this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When you use your Piercing Look ability to focus your attention on one creature you can see and the target dies or falls unconscious, you can use your ability again on your next turn against another target. 
 **Sense of Deduction** | Insight | **(Rank 1)** When you roll Insight about a chain of events, responsible entity of an event, time an event took place, or who might know more about an event, you can re-roll the test. You can use this ability once per turn.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you roll Insight to gain Discovery about a chain of events, responsible entity of an event, time an event took place, or who might know more about an event, you gain +1 Discovery (even if you fail the roll).<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** XXX 
 **Channel Superstition** | Lore | **(Rank 1)** When you use the Demoralize Action and roll a strong or critical success, the target is frightened of you for a short duration. They can roll Spirit + Fortitude at the end of each of their turns to end the effect early.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you use the Demoralize Action, you can target any number of enemies in short range.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When a creature frightened of you rolls Spirit + Fortitude at the end of of their turn to end the effect, increase the difficulty of the roll by one step. 
 **Consult the Myths** | Lore | **(Rank 1)** When you roll Lore about a magical or supernatural place or creature, you can re-roll the test. You can use this ability once per turn.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you roll Lore to gain Discovery about a magical or supernatural place or creature, you gain +1 Discovery (even if you fail the roll).<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** You can use one Discovery about a magical or supernatural creature during an encounter to:<br />- Use an Action to roll Mind + Lore vs. Resist. On a success, you briefly stun the creature.<br />- Gain +1 boon and deal +2 damage on an attack against the creature. 
 **Identify Artefact** | Lore | **(Rank 1)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- You can take a delving turn to sense if an item you hold has magical properties.<br />- After spending an exploration turn with an object, roll Spirit + Lore to identify it‘s magical properties.<br />Weak. The GM tells you the general nature of the item‘s magical properties, such as damage, element, spell, or something else.<br />Strong. The GM tells you one specific magical effect of the item.<br />Critical. The GM tells you everything about the magical effects of the item, even if it was cursed.<br />You can use this ability once per item. If you fail, you need to consult other experts.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** XXX <br /><br />**(Rank 3)** XXX  
 **Mage Hunter** | Lore | **(Rank 1)** When an enemy has to roll for Spell Concentration from damage you have dealt to them, they suffer +1 bane on the roll.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** +1 Resist. When an enemy in your melee range is casting a spell, you can use a Quick Action to make an Opportunity Attack against them. If you hit, they need to roll for Spell Concentration. If they fail, they fail to cast their spell.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** +1 Resist. When an enemy targets you with a spell, you can use a Quick Action to add your Lore to your Defense. 
 **Divine Rites** | Mysticism | **(Rank 1)** During a short break, you can officiate a divine rite to commune with the spiritual energies of your tradition. You regain half your max. Focus. You can use this ability a number of times per day equal to your Mysticism.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you roll a critical success on any mystic spell of rank 1 or higher, you only spend half of it‘s Focus cost (min. 1).<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** During a short break and if you have less Focus remaining than half your max. Focus, you regain Focus up to half your max. Focus. If you also use your Divine Rites ability during this short break, you instead regain all of your Focus. 
 **Divine Will** | Mysticism | **(Rank 1)** When you successfully cast any mystic spell with a name like „Blessing of (name of tradition)“, you can extend the blessing‘s effect to a number of additional creatures equal to your Mysticism that are im melee range of you (ignore the restrictions of the singular spell property for this).<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you successfully cast any mystic spell with a name like „Curse of (name of tradition)“, you can extend the curse‘s effect to a number of additional creatures equal to your Mysticism that are in range of the spell (ignore the restrictions of the singular spell property for this). If your roll also hits vs. their Defense, they also suffer the curse.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When you successfully cast any mystic spell with a name like „Blessing of (name of tradition)“ or „Curse of (name of tradition)“, increase the amount of boons or banes they grant or impose respectively by +1. 
 **Master of Principles** | Mysticism | **(Rank 1)** When you cast a mystic rank 0 spell, you can choose to re-roll the test. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you hit with a mystic rank 0 spell that deals damage, add your Mysticism to the damage.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When you cast a mystic rank 0 spell on your turn, you can use a Quick Action to cast the same spell again, but suffer +1 bane on the roll. 
 **Mystic Champion** | Mysticism | **(Rank 1)** When making an attack with a weapon that is mounted with a mystic talisman, you are able to infuse your spells into it.<br />You can choose any of your mystic rank 0 non-ritual spells that targets the Defense of one or more enemies within your weapon‘s range.<br />Roll your weapon attack. On a hit, apply the spell‘s effects, except for it‘s spell damage, according to the SL of your attack in addition to your normal weapon attack. Your attack‘s damage type becomes that of the spell‘s damage. Also spend the spell‘s Focus cost, but increase it by 2.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You can also use mystic rank 1 non-ritual spells that targets the Defense of one or more enemies within your weapon‘s range with your Spellblade ability.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** You can also use mystic rank 2 non-ritual spells that targets the Defense of one or more enemies within your weapon‘s range with your Spellblade ability. 
 **Mystical Spell Knowledge** | Mysticism | **(Rank 1)** Learn two rank 0 or 1 spells for any of your traditions. You can choose this Talent multiple times.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** Learn two rank 2 or lower spells for any of your traditions. You can choose this Talent multiple times.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** Learn two rank 3 or lower spells for any of your traditions. You can choose this Talent multiple times. 
 **Shape Changer** | Mysticism | **(Rank 1)** When you cast a spell that transforms your physical form, you gain the following effects:<br />- You gain 10 temporary HP<br />- Add your Mysticism to the weapon damage<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you cast a spell that changes your physical form, you also gain the following effects:<br />- Add your Mysticism to your AV<br />- You can attack twice per turn<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When you cast a spell that changes your physical form, you gain the following effects:<br />- You gain resistance against physical damage<br />- Your gain resistance against fire, frost, lightning, or blast damage (choose one when casting the spell). You can also choose to deal damage of the chosen type with your attacks. 
 **Animal Companion** | Nature | **(Rank 1)** You can control animal companions of a tier equal or lower to your Nature (tier 1: tame, tier 2: wild, tier 3: ferocious, tier 4: monstrous). Your animal companion gains the following abilities, while you can command it:<br />- Your companion may use your Nature instead of any skill they have trained for rolls (their statistics are still calculated by their own skill ranks).<br />- When you have a companion of a tier lower than your Nature, apply the basic statistics of the highest tier available to you to it. You can choose, if it’s size increases or stays the same as from it’s original tier.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** Choose one:<br />- You can instead control two animal companions that are both of a tier equal to or lower to half your Survival (rounded down).<br />- Your animal companion can learn two Combat Arts, appropriate for it‘s types of attacks (ignoring the normal types of weapons the Combat Arts can be used with). It can use these Combat Arts, while under your control.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** Choose one:<br />- When you or one of your animal companions under your control hits a target, the other ones gain +1 boon on attacks against that same target during their turn this round.<br />- Your animal companions add your Nature to their weapon damage. 
 **Beast Lore** | Nature | **(Rank 1)** When you roll Nature to gain insights into an animal’s or other natural beast’s attitude, behaviors, or characteristics you can re-roll the test. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- When you roll Nature to gain Discovery about an animal’s or other natural beast’s attitude, behaviors, or characteristics, you gain +1 Discovery (even if you fail the roll).<br />- You can use one Discovery about an animal or other natural beast that is not aggressive towards you to communicate simple ideas with them. This can include asking them to do a task for you, or gaining information about the creature‘s natural environment.<br /> <br />**(Rank 3)** You can use one Discovery about an animal or other natural beast during an encounter to:<br />- Use an Action to roll Spirit + Nature vs. Resist. On a success, you charm the creature for a short duration. You can repeat the roll at the end of the duration to keep the creature friendly towards you.<br />- Gain +1 boon and deal +2 damage on an attack against the creature. 
 **Expert Rider** | Nature | **(Rank 1)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- When you have to roll to calm or not fall from your mount, you gain +1 boon on the roll.<br />- Melee attack while mounted against unmounted enemies gain +1 boon.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- You impose +1 bane on any melee attack against your mount.<br />- When you use the Charge Combat Art while mounted and hit your target, increase the SL of the attack by one step (max. critical success).<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- You automatically succeed on rolls to calm your mount. <br />- Add your Nature to your mounts AV. 
 **Field Medic** | Nature | **(Rank 1)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- When you roll Spirit + Nature to save a creature from dying, gain +1 boon on the roll.<br />- You can quickly attempt to treat a wounded creature during one delving turn. Make a Supply Check for materials and roll Spirit + Nature. On a success, one Injury the creature is suffering is treated.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- When you roll Spirit + Nature to save a creature from dying, add +1 their die result regardless of the result of your roll.<br />- When you roll a Supply Check for materials while treating Injuries, roll it twice and take the higher result.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- When you stop a creature from dying, they regain their consciousness and restore 2 x your Nature as HP. 
 **Knowledgeable Wanderer** | Nature | **(Rank 1)** +2 HP. You don‘t suffer +1 bane on rolls during travel for taking on multiple roles.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** +2 HP. You gain +1 boon on your travel rolls to navigate. Treat your blunders for these rolls as normal failures.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** +2 HP. XXX 
 **Plant Lore** | Nature | **(Rank 1)** When you roll Nature to gain information about a plant’s, herb’s, or plant creature’s behaviors, characteristics, or properties you can re-roll the test. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- When you roll Nature to gain Discovery aabout a plant’s, herb’s, or plant creature’s behaviors, characteristics, or properties you gain +1 Discovery (even if you fail the roll).<br />- When you forage materials during travel, you gain +1 unit of them.<br /> <br />**(Rank 3)** You can use one Discovery about a plant creature during an encounter to:<br />- XXX<br />- Gain +1 boon and deal +2 damage on an attack against the creature. 
 **Poison Maker** | Nature | **(Rank 1)** You can spend one exploration turn to turn natural ingredients into poison. Choose one of the following poisons:<br />- Weapon Poison (weak)<br />- …<br />Make a Supply check for your materials and roll Mind + Nature. On a success, you gain the chosen poison. <br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When making poison, you can also choose one of the following poisons:<br />- Weapon Poison (decent)<br />- …<br />Make a Supply check for your materials and roll a hard Mind + Nature test. On a success, you gain the chosen poison.  <br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When making poison, you can also choose one of the following poisons:<br />- Weapon Poison (strong)<br />- …<br />Make a Supply check for your materials and roll a very hard Mind + Nature test. On a success, you gain the chosen poison.   
 **Blind Senses** | Perception | **(Rank 1)** While you are blinded but not deafened, you gain the following abilities:<br />- Your rolls requiring sight toward targets close to you only suffer +1 bane from you being blinded.<br />- Attacks against you from creatures close to you don’t gain +1 boon from you being blinded.<br />- You can use Quick Actions between your turns toward creatures you can‘t see in close range.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** +1 Resist. You can use your Action or Quick Action on your turn to attempt to sense all creatures around you, even if you can‘t see them. Roll Spirit + Perception vs. Dodge. If you succeed, you are aware of a creature‘s location and movement and are not considered blinded against them while they remain in short distance of you.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** +1 Resist. When you use your Blind Senses ability, you extend your awareness to all creatures in medium distance. 
 **Danger Sense** | Perception | **(Rank 1)** When you roll for Initiative, you can re-roll the test.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** +1 Resist. When enemies attempt to surprise you at the start of combat or you are attacked by a trap, add your Perception to your Resist against the enemies’ rolls.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** +1 Resist. You gain the following abilities:<br />- While you can see and hear each other, allies in short distance of you can use your Resist against enemies attempting to surprise them at the start of combat or when they are attacked by a trap.<br />- Regardless of what you rolled for your Initiative, you can choose to act on normal Initiative. 
 **Dungeon Delver** | Perception | **(Rank 1)** When you encounter some kind of trap, or other mechanical or magical mechanism, you can take a minute to roll Mind + Perception.<br />Weak. You understand the basic effects of activating the mechanism (pit trap, wall blades, ground spikes, …). You gain +1 boon on rolls to avoid activating the mechanism.<br />Strong. You have a more detailed understanding of how the mechanism works. You also gain +1 boon on rolls to disable it.<br />Critical. You fully understand how the mechanism works and what it‘s effects are. Allies close to you gain +1 boon to avoid the mechanism. You also gain resistance against damage from this mechanism‘s effects.<br />You can use this ability once per mechanism.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** +1 Resist. When you roll dice as part of determining some kind of item gained from treasure, roll twice and pick either result.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** +1 Resist. When you roll dice to determine the amount of coin you gain from treasure, roll an extra die and choose the highest results from among them, equal to the original amount of dice. 
 **Eagle Eye** | Perception | **(Rank 1)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- You can use the Spot Action as an Action or a Quick Action on your turn.<br />- When you roll Perception to see anything hidden, obscured, or invisible, you can re-roll the test. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** Attacking a target behind cover at range doesn‘t impose +1 bane on your attack from their cover.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** Your Perception rolls don’t suffer banes from perceiving small details at far distances. You can make out any detail you would see at close range, even up to very far range. 
 **Identify Weakness** | Perception | **(Rank 1)** You can use your Action or Quick Action on your turn to identify a weak spot of a creature or object you can see in long range. Roll Spirit + Perception vs. Resist.<br />On a success, add your Perception to the damage of attacks against the target and ignore their resistances against your attack’s damage type.<br />This effect lasts for a short duration. You can succeed on this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** When you use your Identify Weakness ability to focus your attention on one creature you can see and the target dies or falls unconscious, you can use your ability again on your next turn against another target.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When you hit the target of your Identify Weakness ability with an attack, you can choose to have them be vulnerable against your attack’s damage type. After the attack, roll Spirit + Perception vs. Resist again. On a failure, your Identify Weakness ability ends. 
 **I Know A Guy** | Streetwise | **(Rank 1)** During downtime in a settlement you have previously used the Carouse activity in, you can forgo using Buy Item, Sell Item, or Find Contact. Instead, roll Spirit + Streetwise. On a success, you know somebody related to what you are looking for but the results are more unpredictable.<br />Weak. Your contact holds a grudge against you from your last interaction. They can get you what you are looking for, but have a major request in return.<br />Strong. Your contact can get you what you are looking for, but with a small request in return.<br />Critical. Your contact can get you what you are looking for without any additional requests in return.<br />Can be used once between adventures.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** XXX<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** XXX 
 **Jack of all Trades** | Streetwise | **(Rank 1)** You can choose to add your Streetwise to any roll instead of another skill. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** After you have used your Jack of all Trades ability to replace a skill and succeeded on the roll, you can continue to add your Streetwise to rolls instead of that same skill for the rest of the scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** After you have used your Jack of all Trades ability to replace a skill and succeeded on the roll, you can use it again during the same scene for another skill. 
 **Swashbuckler** | Streetwise | **(Rank 1)** Gain +2 HP. When you hit an enemy with a light melee weapon, this turn that enemy can’t use Quick Actions or other abilities outside of their own turn against you.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** Gain +2 HP. If you hit a creature with a light melee weapon, you gain +1 boon on the next attack with a light melee weapon against them during the same turn.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** Gain +2 HP. After you hit a creature with a light melee weapon, you can use a Quick Action to immediately spend 1 Movement. You can use this ability once between your turns. 
 **Thug Tactics** | Streetwise | **(Rank 1)** When you are in melee range with at least one ally and you outnumber the enemies you are in melee range with, gain +1 boon on attacks against them.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** Your allies you are in melee range with also gain +1 boon against outnumbered enemies you are in melee range with.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** Outnumbered enemies suffer +1 bane on attacks against you and allies you are in melee range with. 
 **Explorer of Nature** | Survival | **(Rank 1)** Choose one of the following environments: Desert, Forest, Mountain, Plains, Sea, Swamp, or Tundra.<br />When exploring or traveling in the chosen environment, and you roll Survival or Nature related to the environment or it‘s inhabitants, you can choose to re-roll the test. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** Choose a second environment.<br />You also gain the following abilities when exploring or traveling in one of your chosen environments:<br />- If you are the navigator, reduce the amount of options you have to choose from a blunder or failure by one.<br />- If you are the scout, reduce the Encounter Die by one step regardless of the outcome of your roll.<br />- If you roll to gather supplies during exploration or travel and you succeed on the roll, you always gain one more unit of supply available (if multiple types of supply can be chosen, choose one).<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** Choose a third environment. You also gain the following abilities when exploring or traveling in one of your chosen environments:<br />- XXX 
 **Makeshift Artisan** | Survival | **(Rank 1)** You can take one exploration turn to craft simple tools and weapons from natural materials you have available. Make a Supply check for materials and roll Agility + Survival. On a success, you create a single Quality 1 weapon or piece of gear with the fragile property or one unit of ammo (arrows, bolts, or throwing stones).<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You can also use your Makeshift Artisan ability to create Quality 2 items. When doing so, make your Supply check for materials twice and take the lower result.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** When you attack using weapons or ammo you created with your Makeshift Artisan ability, you can choose to instantly destroy the weapon or lose one unit of that ammo after a hit with it. When doing so, add it’s weapon damage an additional time to the damage. 
 **Monster Hunter** | Survival | **(Rank 1)** You can use an Action or a Quick Action on your turn to focus your sight on one creature that is at least one size larger than you to analyze it‘s movements and behaviors. Add your Survival to the damage against them.<br />This effect lasts a short duration or until you use it again against another larger creature. <br /><br />**(Rank 2)** While you have a target with your Monster Hunter ability, you can Evade and Guard against them without spending a Quick Action.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** While you have a target with your Monster Hunter ability and you hit them with an attack, you can choose to roll Spirit + Survival vs. Resist. On a success, they are briefly stunned. You can use this ability once per scene. 
 **Relentless Tracker** | Survival | **(Rank 1)** When you roll Survival to follow tracks, identify them, or gain information from them, you can choose to re-roll the test. You can use this ability once per scene.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** XXX<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** XXX 
 **Trap Maker** | Survival | **(Rank 1)** You can use one exploration turn to lay a trap. Make a Supply check for your materials and roll Spirit + Survival. On a success, choose one of the following effects (or choose a fitting, individual effect):<br />- Pit (a creature falls a short distance into the pit)<br />- Falling Rocks (a creature takes 10 crush damage and falls prone)<br />- Net (a creature is restrained by the net)<br />You lay a trap with the chosen effect. It automatically activates once a creature comes into contact with it. Once activated, the target has to roll Agility + Athletics. On a failure, they suffer the trap‘s effect.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- You can also use your Trap Maker ability during a delving turn. When doing so, make the Supply check twice and take the lower result.<br />- When a creature has to roll for one of your traps, the difficulty of their roll is hard.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- When a creature suffers your traps effect, add 2 x your Survival to the damage.<br />- When a creature has to roll for one of your traps, the difficulty of their roll is very hard.  
 **Wilderness Expert** | Survival | **(Rank 1)** While carrying Cook‘s Utensils, you can improve the provisions of the group. During a night‘s rest or bad night, when the group would make a Supply Check for their provisions, roll Spirit + Survival. On a success, each member rolls their Supply Check twice and takes the higher result.<br /><br />**(Rank 2)** You gain the following abilities:<br />- When you have to roll Survival to establish a camp, you gain +1 boon on the roll.<br />- When you are attacked while resting, you can still roll Spirit + Perception to quickly wake up before the attack, but suffer +1 bane on the roll.<br /><br />**(Rank 3)** XXX 

