---
sidebar_position: 7
---

# 💎 Weapon & Armor Materials

Weapons and armor can be made out of a variety of materials. While the default materials don‘t alter the item's properties (even if its quality differs from the item's quality), lower or higher-quality materials do. An item's quality is adjusted to that of the special material.

## Ammo from Special Materials

In addition to upgrading the weapon itself, you can also use ammo from special materials for it. The cost for one unit of special ammo is equal to half the cost per load of the material. Using this ammo adds the material's bonuses for a non-heavy weapon to the weapon's attacks.

## Special Materials

 **Name** | **Quality** | **Cost per Load** | **Durability** | **Properties** 
---|---|---|---|---
 **Bone** | 1 (Primitive) | 1/2 item cost | d4 | The item is fragile. 
 **Copper** | 1 (Primitive) | 1/2 item cost | d4 | The item is fragile. 
 **Fresh Wood** | 1 (Primitive) | 1/2 item cost | d4 | The item is fragile. 
 **Stone** | 1 (Primitive) | 1/2 item cost | d4 | The item is fragile. 
 **Brass** | 2 (Simple) | - | d6 | Default material for metallic armor, helmets, and shields. 
 **Bronze** | 2 (Simple) | - | d6 | Default material for metallic armor, helmets, and shields. 
 **Hard Wood** | 2 (Simple) | - | d6 | Default material for weapon shafts and light shields. 
 **Iron** | 2 (Simple) | - | d6 | Default material for metallic armor, helmets, and shields in some regions. 
 **Leather** | 2 (Simple) | - | d6 | Default material for light armor and light shields. 
 **Obsidian** | 2 (Simple) | +100 | d6 | The item is fragile.<br />- Weapon: +1 damage. 
 **Chitin** | 3 (Advanced) | +500 | d6 | Some chitinous creatures can be harvested for their chitin plates. They can be used as a lighter, organic alternative to metals.<br /><br />- Armor/Helmet/Shield: The item’s load is halved (min. 1/2 load). 
 **Brimstone Bronze** | 4 (Formidable) | +2,000 | d6 | - Weapon: Attacks deal fire damage. On a strong hit, this weapon inflicts burning (2). On a strong critical, this weapon inflicts burning (4). <br />- Ammo: +1 damage and attacks deal fire damage.<br />- Armor: Wearing the armor grants you Resistance against fire damage.<br />- Helmet: Wearing the helmet grants you Resistance against fire damage.<br />- Shield: Parrying with the shield grants you Resistance against fire damage.  
 **Dragon Bone** | 4 (Formidable) | +2,000 | d6 | - Weapon: Increase the weapon damage by 1 (non-heavy) or 2 (heavy).<br />- Ammo: +1 damage. 
 **Dragon Scales** | 4 (Formidable) | +2,000 | d8 | - Armor: +1 AV (light) or +2 AV (heavy).<br />- Helmet/Shield: +1 AV. 
 **Dwarf-Steel** | 4 (Formidable) | +2,000 | d8 | Silvery metal emitting constant warmness. Imported from the desert fortresses of the dwarves. The secret to creating this magical steel is strongly protected by them.<br /><br />- Weapon: Increase the weapon damage by 1 (non-heavy) or 2 (heavy).<br />- Armor: +1 AV (light) or +2 AV (heavy).<br />- Helmet/Shield: +1 AV.<br />- Ammo: +1 damage. 
 **Iron-Silk** | 4 (Formidable) | +2,000 | d6 | Harvested from giant spiders in volcanic regions. Threads made from Iron-Silk are as sturdy as metal without much weight.<br /><br />- Light Armor: The item’s load is halved (min. 1/2 load). 
 **Meteorite** | 4 (Formidable) | +2,000 | d8 | Blueish iron ore of the cosmos, said to be imbued with iinnate magical energies.<br /><br />- Weapon: Increase the weapon damage by 1 (non-heavy) or 2 (heavy).<br />- Armor: +1 AV (light) or +2 AV (heavy).<br />- Helmet/Shield: +1 AV.<br />- Ammo: +1 damage. 
 **Silverwood** | 4 (Formidable) | +2,000 | d8 | Very sturdy wood of the Silverleaf Oak with shiny silver veins running through it.<br /><br />- Weapon: Increase the weapon damage by 1 (non-heavy) or 2 (heavy).<br />- Shield: +1 AV. 
 **Truesilver** | 4 (Formidable) | +2,000 | d6 | A magical alloy that has a poisonous effect against certain supernatural creatures.<br /><br />- Weapon/Ammo: Werecreatures, fiends, and undead are vulnerable to this weapon&#x27;s or ammo&#x27;s damage. <br />- Armor: Attacks from werecreatures, fiends, and undead inflict 4 damage (ignoring AV) against the attacker. <br />- Shield: Parrying with the shield imposes +1 bane on attacks from werecreatures, fiends, and undead against you. 
 **Lunarite** | 5 (Exceptional) | +10,000 | d10 | Midnight-blue crystals. One of the three celestial crystals, found in the deepest caverns of the underworld. Mixed with iron in a magic ritual to create a black-blue alloy that absorbs light and is always cold to the touch. The material absorbs magical energy, either used as armor to protect against magic, or as restrains which prevent the user from casting magic.<br /><br />Items made from this material are immune against any enchantments or effects from spells affecting them. You can‘t cast spells while wearing any item made from this material.<br />- Weapon: Increase the weapon damage by 1 (non-heavy) or 2 (heavy). Ignore resistances against the weapon’s damage.<br />- Armor: Wearing the armor grants you resistance against non-physical damage you take from spells and magical effects.<br />- Helmet: Wearing the helmet grants you resistance against psychic damage.<br />- Shield: Parrying with the shield grants you resistance against non-physical damage you take from spells and magical effects.<br />- Ammo: +1 damage. Ignore resistances against the weapon’s damage. 
 **Night‘s Wood** | 5 (Exceptional) | +10,000 | d8 | Silverwood infused with the spiritual power of the moon. The creation ritual is a well kept secret of the Alfir.<br /><br />- Weapon: Increase the weapon damage by 2 (non-heavy) or 3 (heavy). Attacks deal arcane damage.<br />- Armor: +1 AV (light) or +2 AV (heavy). The item’s load is halved (min. 1/2 load).<br />- Shield: +1 AV. 
 **Orichalcum** | 5 (Exceptional) | +10,000 | d8 | Very rare light-blue metal that is almost weightless. A magic ritual grants the item exceptional flexibility and hardness without increasing the ore’s weight.<br /><br />- Weapon: Increase the weapon damage by 2 (non-heavy) or 3 (heavy). The item’s load is halved (min. 1/2 load).<br />- Armor: +2 AV (light) or +3 AV (heavy). Reduce rigid property by 1. The item’s load is halved (min. 1/2 load).<br />- Helmet or Shield: +2 AV. The item’s load is halved (min. 1/2 load).<br />- Ammo: +2 damage. 
 **Solarite** | 5 (Exceptional) | +10,000 | d8 | Red-golden crystals. One of the three celestial crystals, found atop the peaks of the celestial mountains. Mixed with bronze in a magic ritual to create a red-golden alloy that emits constant warmth. Rapid movements briefly ignite the material with immense heat.<br /><br />- Weapon: Increase the weapon damage by 2 (non-heavy) or 3 (heavy). Attacks deal fire damage.<br />- Ammo: +2 damage. Attacks deal fire damage. 
 **Aegium** | 6 (Epic) | +50,000 | d12 | White-golden metal from the high spirit realms themselves. Are said to be the god’s favored metal.<br /><br />- Weapon: Increase the weapon damage by 3 (non-heavy) or 4 (heavy).<br />- Armor: +3 AV (light) or +4 AV (heavy).<br />- Helmet or Shield: +3 AV.<br />- Ammo: +3 damage. 
 **Elder Dragon Bones** | 6 (Epic) | +50,000 | d10 | - Weapon: Increase the weapon damage by 3 (non-heavy) or 4 (heavy). Attacks deal fire damage.<br />- Ammo: +3 damage. 
 **Elder Dragon Scales** | 6 (Epic) | +50,000 | d10 | - Armor: +2 AV (light) or +3 AV (heavy). Wearing the armor grants you Resistance against fire damage.<br />- Helmet: +2 AV.<br />- Shield: +2 AV. Parrying with the shield grants you Resistance against fire damage. 
 **Eternite** | 6 (Epic) | +50,000 | d10 | Light ocean-blue crystal. Most rare of the three celestial crystals. Shaped in a magic ritual, creating a semitransparent dark-blue alloy with what looks like tiny stars inside the material.<br /><br />- Weapon: Increase the weapon damage by 2 (non-heavy) or 3 (heavy). Attacks ignore 1/2 the enemy’s AV (rounded up). <br />- Ammo: +2 damage. Attacks ignore 1/2 the enemy’s AV (rounded up).  
 **Titanium** | 6 (Epic) | +50,000 | d12 | Deep magenta coloured metal with a shiny light tint at it’s edges said to be created where cracks in the fabric of the material world collide with the lower spirit realms. Only found in places of deep magical power. Items made from it possess a thin, natural energy shield around them, lessening impacts made with high velocity against the material.<br /><br />- Weapon: Increase the weapon damage by 3 (non-heavy) or 4 (heavy).<br />- Armor: +2 AV (light) or +3 AV (heavy). Wearing the armor grants you Resistance against physical damage.<br />- Helmet: +2 AV. Wearing the helmet makes you immune against being shaken.<br />- Shield: +2 AV. Parrying with the shield grants you Resistance against physical damage.<br />- Ammo: +3 damage. 
